I 've bought a car .
She 's got a boyfriend .
There was a sudden loud noise .
What a shame that you could n't go to the party .
I heard a child crying .
Is he a friend of yours (= one of your friends ) ?
She wants to be a doctor when she grows up .
This is a very mild cheese .
Experts think the painting may be a Picasso (= by Picasso ) .
Can you ride a bike ?
A cheetah can run faster than a lion .
A teacher needs to have a lot of patience .
I only have a limited knowledge of Spanish .
He has a great love of music .
There was a fierceness in her voice .
Take a look at this , Jez .
I 'm just going to have a snack .
There was a knocking at the door .
I 'd love a coffee .
All I had for lunch was a yogurt .
There 's a Ms Evans to see you .
Is that a Wilson over there ?
My birthday is on a Friday this year .
It 's been a very wet June .
There were three men and a woman .
half a mile
three quarters of an hour
six tenths of a second
Take one tablet three times a day .
I swim once a week .
She earns $ 100,000 a year .
My plumber charges £ 30 an hour .
I pay £ 25 a week for my parking permit .
In this book , John Pemble takes a brisk trot through the history and mysteries of Venice .
I 've got a whole heap of work to do .
2004 was a banner year for astronomy .
Technology stocks had a banner month , rising 6.9 per cent .
I was given a million-dollar project to manage in my first month - it was a real baptism of fire .
It 's a big ask , I know , but we need the project finished by June .
He 's just a big girl's blouse .
Climb to the top of the Eiffel Tower if you want a bird's eye view of Paris .
Have you seen his latest bit of skirt ?
Jenny 's chatting up the barman again . She likes a bit of rough .
We 've thought for a while that he was having a bit on the side .
Losing to a younger player was a bitter pill to swallow .
The ground was covered by a thick blanket of snow .
Losing that job was a blessing in disguise really .
The answer came to her in a blinding flash .
We had a blitz on the house at the weekend and cleaned it completely .
The news of his marriage was a bolt from the blue .
She 's so lazy - she needs a good boot up the backside .
Angela 's so cheerful and lively - she 's like a breath of fresh air when she visits .
He 's not exactly a bundle of laughs , is he ?
Sorry for shouting - I 'm a bundle of nerves these days .
I think her making fun of his wife was a cheap shot .
He 's been given a clean bill of health by the doctor .
Of 30 countries inspected for airline safety , only 17 received a clean bill of health .
You were very lazy last term , but we 'll start again with a clean sheet this term .
The car just missed the child but it was a very close call .
The car just missed the child but it was a very close thing .
When you 're waiting for an operation , you feel like there 's a cloud hanging over you .
The only cloud on the horizon is the physics exam in June .
I decided to set up my own business because I was tired of just being a cog in a machine .
I need to declare a conflict of interest here - one of the candidates for the job is a friend of mine .
" I 'm really sorry ! " " What a crock - you are not . "
Most suicide attempts are really a cry for help .
She thinks she 's a cut above her neighbours .
My letter of protest was just a drop in the ocean .
It 's only right that all the candidates should be given a fair crack of the whip .
When you 're 16 , an evening at home with your parents seems like a fate worse than death .
It 's a real feather in our cap to be playing in the state championship .
He introduced the visitors with a few well-chosen words .
The museum is just a few steps from the hotel .
As a parent , I knew that there was a fine line between panic and caution .
Reforming these young offenders will require a firm hand .
The investigators' request for the company's accounts is simply a fishing expedition - they have no real evidence of wrongdoing .
Sadly , their success was just a flash in the pan .
The proposition is incomprehensible to us , and hence a fortiori we can not be justified in believing it .
Just because he was the boss's son did n't mean Tim got a free ride .
Even as a tiny baby , she had a thick head of hair .
Fulham are third from bottom with two games in hand over the teams below them .
That 's my good turn for the day !
You did me a good turn warning me that Abigail was going to be there .
His finger was within a hair's breadth of touching the alarm .
She came within a hair's breadth of losing her life (= she nearly died ) .
Teachers have a tough row to hoe in today's schools .
They 're really beginning to build up a head of steam for their campaign .
I think Carol has a heavy date - she 's been in the bathroom for over an hour .
With a heavy heart , she turned to wave goodbye .
Have you seen his résumé ? He 's a real heavy hitter .
It 's a heck of a long way to the nearest shop from here .
20 dollars for that is a heck of a good deal .
She 's one heck of a writer .
The whole house was a hive of activity on the day before the wedding .
I ca n't talk right now - I have a hundred and one things to do this morning .
That diamond necklace must have cost a king's ransom .
Already out of training , the latest illness has dealt her hopes of a gold medal a knockout blow .
She has her hair blonde and curly , à la Marilyn Monroe .
You get more choice if you eat à la carte / from the à la carte menu .
Compare
apple pie à la mode
It was n't much of a speech - just a laundry list of accusations against the government .
I had very little information about the company , so writing to them was a leap in the dark .
It took a big leap of faith to decide to quit my job and try something new .
You usually need three A levels to get into university .
I failed my History A level .
Do you have an A level in maths ?
This problem should be easy enough for someone who 's done physics at A level .
If the tax systems are different in each European country , how can industries start on a level playing field ?
I 've got a list as long as my arm of the things we need to do before we leave .
" How did you know he was leaving ? " " Oh , let 's just say a little bird told me . "
Who said they were cheaper - what a load of rubbish !
He liked the second series and I thought it was a load of crap .
I 'm so relieved that I do n't have to make a speech - it 's such a weight off my mind !
" Why do you have such a long face ? " " My boyfriend does n't want to see me any more . "
He has a long way to go before he can present the plans to the public .
The film's success will no doubt please the 46-year-old director , who was rumoured to have lost his magic touch .
Terry 's what you 'd call a man 's man - you would n't find him at the ballet too many nights a week .
My father was a man of few words , but when he spoke it was worth listening to .
You can trust him - he 's a man of his word .
If you keep on driving like that , it 'll only be a matter of time before you have an accident .
I did n't particularly like the job - it was just a means to an end .
The author uses disease as a metaphor for the corruption in society .
In the film , the city is a metaphor for confusion and loneliness .
Mike was very excited , talking a mile a minute .
She 's lying - you can tell it a mile off .
It was a miserable excuse for a meal .
He kept asking me to help him , and in a moment of weakness I said yes .
They 've got three kids and her husband just lost his job - the last thing they need is another mouth to feed .
She decided that freelancing was a mug's game .
We caught the ferry but it was a narrow squeak .
Finding the piece of paper I need in this huge pile of documents is like looking for / trying to find a needle in a haystack
His grandchildren have given him a new lease of life .
The project suddenly got a new lease of life when the developers agreed to provide some more funding .
UK Let 's have / go for a night on the town to celebrate .
US We were out for a night on the town to celebrate Dee's graduation .
The department made a nip here and a tuck there , but they were still way over budget .
整形手術（同 plastic surgery）
She 's not prepared to be just another notch on the bedpost .
To me , business is more than just a numbers game .
For me there could be nothing worse than living with a pack rat .
The signing of the peace treaty will be seen as a glorious page in our country's history .
That child is a real pain in the neck .
The kids were a real pain in the arse .
To receive even the smallest amount of financial aid from a college , it 's a real paper chase .
The parting of the ways came after a series of disagreements between the singer and his song-writer .
He bears more than a passing resemblance to (= he is noticeably similar to ) the young Marlon Brando .
I got a pat on the back from (= was praised by ) my boss .
Inexhaustible patience is a pearl of great price .
I 'd advise anyone to put aside a proportion of their earnings - a penny saved is a penny earned .
Now research has proved that the drug is effective , everyone wants a slice of the action .
The company plans to acquire new businesses to grab a bigger piece of the pie .
People see others getting pay raises and they want a slice of the pie .
He certainly earned his place in the sun .
We do n't want the immigration issue to become a political football .
Things have come to a pretty pass when a referee can no longer be trusted .
" It 's freezing outside ; you must be cold " is an example of a priori reasoning .
A question mark hangs over the future of the company .
I got a rap on the knuckles for not finishing my essay on time .
He said that many children in the city's schools were getting / being given a raw deal by being taught in classes that were too large .
It takes ( quite ) a reach of the imagination to believe that story .
We 've got a right one here , eh !
Jim's rose garden is a riot of colour .
I 'm sure he 'll live to a ripe old age .
The party was a roaring success .
Hal was a bit of a rolling stone before he married and settled down .
She gave him enough money to get a roof over his head .
Government plans to cut sick pay had a rough ride in the House of Commons .
The construction industry is in for a rough ride this year .
I started my life on the bottom rung of the ladder in this company .
For her this was just the first rung on her career/professional ladder .
Once you rise a few rungs up the ladder , life becomes easier .
Colleagues regard her as a safe pair of hands .
Fresh investment would provide the shot in the arm that this industry so badly needs .
I wish you 'd been here when my mother died and I needed a shoulder to cry on .
You 're a sight for sore eyes !
50 police officers to arrest two unarmed men is surely using a sledgehammer to crack a nut .
You 'll have to spend a small fortune in legal fees if you decide to sue for compensation .
The more successful you become , the more publicity you get and that publicity generates sales . It 's a kind of snowball effect .
There 's been a definite spring in his step ever since he met Joanna .
The changes that have been introduced are being seen as a step backwards .
No one is sure whether this plan will work , but it 's a step forward .
The country's lack of openess was used as a stick to beat it with .
The apartment is just a stone's throw from the sea .
" Is your house far from here ? " " No , it 's only a stone 's throw away . "
The president's re-election is now far from a sure thing .
Giving up your seat to an older person seems to be a thing of the past .
I 'm having trouble paying attention - I have a thing or two on my mind .
Why do n't you ask Andrew about it ? He knows a thing or two about (= has some knowledge of ) computers .
She thinks she knows everything about raising children , but I could tell her a thing or two (= some information she does not know ) .
As a teenager , Jack was a real hard nut , always getting into fights .
Andrea was a tower of strength to me when I was ill .
To prevent red wine from staining , put some salt on it - it works a treat .
That soup went down a treat (= tasted very good ) !
I polished that old desk of grandma 's and it came up a treat (= its appearance improved ) .
Each letter from my bank is another turn of the screw .
He 's used to hard physical work - this is a walk in the park to him .
Keep a watch out for Nicki and Steve - they should be here somewhere .
He sounds about as much fun as a wet weekend in Carmarthenshire .
That 's a whale of a story .
Another thousand dollars would make a whale of a difference .
Things were about to get a whole lot worse .
He did n't like them a whole lot .
I said no , for a whole lot of reasons .
We 'd done a lot of climbing in Scotland but the Himalayas were a whole new ballgame .
There 's a world of difference between the service in the two hotels .
It 's a sort of pale orange colour .
This concerto is in the key of A major .
Sophie got an A for English .
She got straight As (= all her marks were As ) in her final exams .
Jim is a straight-A student (= all his marks are A ) .
an A-frame chalet
An A-line skirt disguises fuller hips .
A-list celebrities
The doctor says I 'm A - OK now , that there 's absolutely nothing wrong with me .
The conference will be attended by David Taylor , Joe Sellars , and A.N. Other .
I agree with you one hundred percent .
I 'm better than I was last week but I 'm still not ( feeling ) a hundred percent (= I 'm not completely well ) .
a sheet of A2
See also
a sheet of A3
a sheet of A4
a sheet of A5
an AA meeting
I was somewhat taken aback by her honesty .
We had to abandon the car .
By the time the rebel troops arrived , the village had already been abandoned .
As a baby he was abandoned by his mother .
We were sinking fast , and the captain gave the order to abandon ship .
The game was abandoned at half-time because of the poor weather conditions .
They had to abandon their attempt to climb the mountain .
The party has now abandoned its policy of unilateral disarmament .
He abandoned himself to his emotions .
We danced with wild abandon .
He said nothing but looked abashed .
The storm/wind/rain has started to abate .
The fighting in the area shows no sign of abating .
See also
Westminster Abbey
" ITV " is the abbreviation for "Independent Television " .
He 's learning his ABC at school .
What I need is a book that contains the ABC of carpentry .
She abdicated all responsibility for the project .
The company director was abducted from his car by terrorists .
Listen for a clicking sound as the child's hips are abducted .
There has been a series of abductions of young children from schools in the area .
He was charged with abduction .
hip abduction exercises
She was tortured by her abductors .
It is thought that the woman might have known her abductor .
In a moment of aberration , she agreed to go with him .
I 'm sorry I 'm late - I had a mental aberration and forgot we had a meeting today .
His accountant had aided and abetted him in the fraud .
Hostilities between the two groups have been in abeyance since last June .
The project is being held in abeyance until agreement is reached on funding it .
I abhor all forms of racism .
She looked at him in / with abhorrence .
She has an abhorrence of change .
an abhorrent crime
Racism of any kind is abhorrent to me .
I ca n't abide her .
He could n't abide laziness .
He abided in the wilderness for forty days .
Competitors must abide by the judge's decision .
My abiding memory is of him in the garden .
There 's no doubting her ability .
[ + to infinitive ] She had the ability to explain things clearly and concisely .
She 's a woman of considerable abilities .
I have children in my class of very mixed abilities (= different levels of skill or intelligence ) .
a mixed-ability class
suitability
vulnerability
They live in abject poverty .
This policy has turned out to be an abject failure .
an abject apology
He is almost abject in his respect for his boss .
He abjured his religion / his life of dissipation .
The house was ablaze , and the flames and smoke could be seen for miles around .
The ballroom was ablaze with lights .
The field was ablaze with wild flowers .
Her eyes were ablaze with excitement .
Will she be able to cope with the work ?
He 's never been able to admit to his mistakes .
I 'm sorry that I was n't able to phone you yesterday .
It 's so wonderful being able to see the sea from my window .
More examplesI've never been able to do crosswords . Dr Jones is very busy but I 'm sure she 'll be able to see you tomorrow . Will you be able to carry all the shopping back home on your bike?He was able to lead a normal life , despite the illness . Irene wo n't be able to play in the match on Saturday .
Get a good night's sleep and you 'll feel better able to cope .
an able child/student/secretary
This problem is now being looked at by some of the ablest minds/scientists in the country .
breakable
washable
movable
an admirable person
an acceptable answer
All able-bodied young men were forced to join the army .
Ablution is part of some religious ceremonies .
I need to perform my ablutions !
He performs his duties very ably .
to abnegate responsibility / guilt
Tests revealed some abnormal skin cells .
genetic/congenital abnormalities
An increasing number of tests are available for detecting foetal abnormalities .
The X-rays showed some slight abnormality .
the ABO blood group system
The flight attendant welcomed us aboard .
Welcome aboard flight BA345 to Tokyo .
The train 's about to leave . All aboard !
We spent two months aboard ship (= on the ship ) .
formal The defendant is of no fixed abode (= has no permanent home ) .
humorous Welcome to my humble abode !
I think bullfighting should be abolished .
The prisoners are forced to live in abominable conditions .
The weather 's been abominable all week .
He abominates cruelty of all kinds .
Cruelty to animals is an abomination .
The plan/flight had to be aborted at the last minute .
Do you think it 's wrong to use aborted foetuses for medical research ?
She decided to have / get an abortion .
Abortion is restricted in some American states .
Compare
stillbirth
This project is a complete abortion .
He made two abortive attempts on the French throne .
Theories abound about how the universe began .
The coast here abounds with rare plants .
What 's that book about ?
a film about the Spanish Civil War
We were talking / laughing about Sophie .
He 's always ( going ) on about what a great job he 's got .
I 'm worried about David .
I really do n't know what all the fuss is about .
I wish you 'd do something about (= take action to solve the problem of ) your bedroom - it 's a real mess .
UK informal Could you make me a coffee too while you 're about it (= while you are making one for yourself ) ?
What did n't you like about the play ?
There 's something about her attitude that worries me .
There 's something special about him (= in his character ) .
" Is that your car ? " " Yes , what about it ? " (= Why are you asking me ? )
Their belongings were flung about the room .
Do you have such a thing as a pen about you / your person ? (= Do you have a pen ? )
" What time are you leaving work today ? " " About five . "
We 're about ready to leave .
Well , I think that 's about it for now (= we have almost finished what we are doing for the present ) .
They heard someone moving about outside .
I 've been running about all morning trying to find you .
She always leaves her clothes lying about on the floor .
Is John about (= somewhere near ) ?
There 's a lot of flu about (= many people have it ) at the moment .
I was about to leave when Mark arrived .
She looked as if she was about to cry .
I 'd only gone a little way down the street when I remembered I had n't locked the door , so I made / did a quick about-turn .
This is the government 's second about -turn on the issue .
There 's a mirror above the sink .
He waved the letter excitedly above his head .
She 's rented a room above a shop .
Her name comes above mine on the list .
The helicopter was hovering above the building .
It 's on the shelf just above your head .
A crack had started to appear just above the light on the ceiling .
It says on the box it 's for children aged three and above .
Rates of pay are above average .
Temperatures rarely rise above zero in winter .
She values her job above her family .
They value their freedom above ( and beyond ) all else .
Above all , I 'd like to thank my family .
Above all , I 'd say I value kindness .
Sally's a grade above me .
More examplesA captain ranks above a lieutenant . A major-general is above a brigadier in the British army . Melanie's husband worked above mine in the Quality Control Department . The old man resented having someone above him telling him what to do . You do n't get your own office here until you 're a manager or above .
No one is above suspicion in this matter .
He 's not above lying (= he sometimes lies ) to protect himself .
Please send the articles to the address given above .
The letter was sent to the above address .
All of the above should be invited .
Once we 've finished all of the above we can start on the next project .
The deal was completely open and above board .
All of the above-mentioned movies won Oscars .
Compare
Of the three Abrahamic faiths , only Christians can depict an image of God or the prophets .
There seems to have been some abrasion of the surface .
She had a small abrasion on her knee .
She has a rather abrasive manner .
He can sometimes be abrasive in meetings .
an abrasive cleaner/powder/liquid
You 'll need a strong abrasive for cleaning this sink .
We were running / swimming two abreast .
The motorcyclist came abreast of her car and shouted abuse at her .
I try to keep abreast of any developments .
The book was abridged for children .
He 's currently abroad on business .
We always go abroad in the summer .
Not a soul was abroad that morning .
There 's a rumour abroad that she intends to leave the company .
an abrupt change/movement
Our conversation came to an abrupt end when George burst into the room .
The road ended in an abrupt (= sudden and very steep) slope down to the sea .
an abrupt manner/reply
He is sometimes very abrupt with clients .
腹肌（同 abdominals）
She had an abscess on her gum .
Two prisoners absconded last night .
She absconded from boarding school with her boyfriend .
They absconded with £ 10,000 of the company's money .
She abseiled down the rock face .
A new manager was appointed during / in her absence .
She has had repeated absences from work this year .
He drew attention to the absence of concrete evidence against the defendant .
In the absence of (= because there were not ) more suitable candidates , we decided to offer the job to Mr Conway .
John has been absent from school/work for three days now .
We drank a toast to absent friends .
Any sign of remorse was completely absent from her face .
Absent a detailed plan , the project was doomed from the start .
You can not choose to absent yourself ( from work/school ) on a whim .
There are several absentees from school this week , because a lot of people have flu .
Compare
He stared absently at his food .
a man of absolute integrity /discretion
I have absolute faith in her judgment .
There was no absolute proof of fraud .
He 's an absolute idiot !
That 's absolute rubbish !
an absolute law/principle/doctrine
Do you think there 's such a thing as absolute truth /beauty ?
Her contribution was better than most , but in absolute terms (= without comparing it with anything else ) it was not very good .
an absolute monarch
I believed / trusted him absolutely .
You must be absolutely silent or the birds wo n't appear .
We 've achieved absolutely nothing today .
It 's absolutely impossible to work with all this noise .
The food was absolutely disgusting / delicious .
I absolutely loathe / adore jazz .
" Are you too tired to continue ? " " Absolutely not ! "
She was granted /given absolution .
The report absolved her from / of all blame for the accident .
The priest absolved him ( of all his sins ) .
Plants absorb carbon dioxide .
In cold climates , houses need to have walls that will absorb heat .
Towels absorb moisture .
The drug is quickly absorbed into the bloodstream .
Our countryside is increasingly being absorbed by / into the large cities .
The barrier absorbed the main impact of the crash .
It 's hard to absorb so much information .
The project has absorbed her for several years .
Synonym
The school has absorbed most of the expenses so far , but it may have to offer fewer places next year to reduce costs .
Telecorp Holdings absorbed its Spanish subsidiary into its British headquarters .
Simon was so absorbed in his book that he did n't even notice me come in .
Synonym
See
I read her last novel and found it very absorbing .
Some poisonous gases can enter the body by absorption through the skin .
Her absorption in her work is so great that she thinks about nothing else .
See also
We can justify the company's absorption of higher manufacturing costs .
Reports confirmed the absorption of Kode's operations into DCM's offices .
He took a vow to abstain from alcohol/smoking/sex .
63 members voted in favour , 39 opposed , and 15 abstained .
During a recent general strike , employees of all major trade unions abstained .
There were high levels of abstention ( from voting ) in the last elections .
There were ten votes in favour , six against , and three abstentions .
Abstention from alcohol is essential while you are taking this medication .
The best way to avoid pregnancy is total abstinence from sex .
Truth and beauty are abstract concepts .
This debate is becoming too abstract - let 's have some hard facts !
I have difficulty dealing with the abstract - let 's discuss particular cases .
So far we 've only discussed the question in the abstract (= without referring to any real examples ) .
an abstract painter
There is a section at the end of the magazine that includes abstracts of recent articles/books .
"Happiness " , "honesty " , and "liberty " are abstract nouns .
Compare
He gave her an abstracted glance , then returned to his book .
She 's always talking in abstractions .
I wanted a way to have people think about it more abstractly .
an abstruse philosophical essay
What an absurd thing to say !
Do n't be so absurd ! Of course I want you to come .
It 's an absurd situation - neither of them will talk to the other .
Do I look absurd in this hat ?
The whole situation borders on the absurd .
She has a keen sense of the absurd .
There was an abundance of food at the wedding .
We had wine in abundance .
an abundant supply of food
There is abundant evidence that cars have a harmful effect on the environment .
Cheap consumer goods are abundant (= exist in large amounts ) in this part of the world .
She is continually abusing her position/authority by getting other people to do things for her .
I never expected that he would abuse the trust I placed in him .
to abuse alcohol
Several of the children had been sexually / physically / emotionally abused .
The crowd started abusing him after he failed to save a goal .
an abuse (= wrong use ) of privilege/power / someone's kindness
Drug and alcohol abuse (= using these substances in a bad way ) contributed to his early death .
sexual/physical/mental abuse (= bad treatment )
He had apparently experienced a lot of verbal abuse from his co-workers .
He hurled ( a stream/torrent of ) abuse at her (= he said a lot of rude and offensive things to her ) .
" Idiot ! " is a term of abuse (= an insulting expression ) .
an abusive letter/phone call
He was apparently abusive to the flight attendants .
Mexico abuts ( on ) some of the richest parts of the United States .
Their house abutted ( onto ) the police station .
When we arrived , the party was in full swing and the room was abuzz .
The air was abuzz with military helicopters .
The food was abysmal .
The standard of the students' work is abysmal .
The country is sinking / plunging into an abyss of violence and lawlessness .
She found herself on the edge of an abyss .
air conditioning
www.cam.ac.uk
A graduate of law , he had spent his life in academia .
an academic institution
the academic year (= the time during which students go to school or college )
I was never a particularly academic child .
a purely academic argument/question
In 1823 he became professor and academician at Munich .
a military/police academy
the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art
The youth academy starts training talented young players from the age of eight .
The cocktails are made of tropical ingredients such as fresh passion fruit and açaí berries .
He graciously acceded to our request .
It is doubtful whether the government will ever accede to the nationalists' demands for independence .
The diaries were written in 1837 , when Queen Victoria acceded to the throne .
I accelerated to overtake the bus .
Opposite
Inflation is likely to accelerate this year , adding further upward pressure on interest rates .
They use special chemicals to accelerate the growth of crops .
An older car will have poor acceleration .
High winds significantly hampered the plane's acceleration .
The acceleration in the decline of manufacturing industry began several years ago .
He 's got a strong southern/Boston accent .
She 's French but she speaks with an impeccable English accent .
He speaks with a broad/heavy/strong/thick Yorkshire accent .
I thought I could detect a slight Canadian accent .
a grave accent
The accent falls on the final syllable .
This season the accent is definitely on long, flowing, romantic clothes .
In any advertising campaign , you must accent the areas where your product is better than the competition .
specialized Accent the first note of every bar .
Her dress was tightly belted , accentuating the slimness of her waist .
The new policy only serves to accentuate the inadequacy of help for the homeless .
Do you accept credit cards ?
She was in Mumbai to accept an award for her latest novel .
I offered her an apology , but she would n't accept it .
I accept full responsibility for the failure of the plan .
The new coffee machines will accept coins of any denomination .
We 've offered her the job , but I do n't know whether she 'll accept it .
I 've just accepted an invitation to the opening-night party .
I 've been invited to their wedding but I have n't decided whether to accept .
The manuscript was accepted for publication last week .
She was accepted as a full member of the society .
His fellow workers refused to accept him (= to include him as one of their group ) .
The police refused to accept her version of the story .
He still has n't accepted the situation (= realized that he can not change it ) .
[ + that ] I ca n't accept that there 's nothing we can do .
Clearly we need to come to an arrangement that is acceptable to both parties .
So what is an acceptable level of radiation ?
This kind of attitude is simply not acceptable .
Her performance was acceptable , but not stunning .
The idea rapidly gained acceptance (= became approved of ) in political circles .
The party marked his acceptance into the community .
Her acceptance of the award was very controversial .
an acceptance speech
His attitude to his children's behaviour is one of resigned acceptance .
"Speed bump " now seems to be the generally accepted term for those ridges in the road that slow traffic down .
The only access to the village is by boat .
The main access to (= entrance to ) the building is at the side .
The children's father was refused access to them at any time (= refused official permission to see them ) .
The system has been designed to give the user quick and easy access to the required information .
Hackers had / gained complete access to the company files .
She did n't have any formal qualifications but took an access course to get into university .
the UK's largest internet access provider
The resort is easily accessible by road , rail , and air .
The problem with some of these drugs is that they are so very accessible .
Lea Anderson is a choreographer who believes in making dance accessible .
Covent Garden has made some attempt to make opera accessible to a wider public .
1926 was the year of Emperor Hirohito's accession to the throne .
Poland's accession to the EU
She was wearing a little black dress , accessorized simply with a silver necklace .
She wore a green wool suit with matching accessories (= shoes , hat , bag , etc . ) .
Sunglasses are much more than a fashion accessory .
Accessories for the top - of - the-range car include leather upholstery , electric windows , and a sunroof .
an accessory to murder
accessory pathway tachycardia
The patient has been asymptomatic after ablation of the accessory pathway .
Accha , that 's good . Go ahead !
Josh had an accident and spilled water all over his work .
She was injured in a car/road accident (= when one car hit another ) .
I deleted the file by accident .
I found her letter by accident as I was looking through my files .
Reports suggest that eleven soldiers were killed by accidental fire from their own side .
The site was located after the accidental discovery of bones in a field .
You may spot accidentals driven in by the stormy weather .
I accidentally knocked a glass over .
I 've never liked these glasses of Peter 's . I might drop them one day - accidentally on purpose .
Despite the critical acclaim , the novel did not sell well .
Hamlet was played by Ion Caramitrou to rapturous acclaim .
She was universally / widely / publicly acclaimed for her contribution to the discovery .
She is being acclaimed (= publicly recognized ) as the greatest dancer of her generation .
His speech was greeted with ( shouts of ) acclamation .
（ 使）適應；（使）習慣於；（使）服水土（同 acclimatize ）
More time will be needed for the troops and equipment to become acclimatized to desert conditions .
We found it impossible to acclimatize ourselves to the new working conditions .
The defending champion has acclimatized to the 90°F sunshine by spending the past month in Florida .
" Why is it that it rains all the time in England ? " " Do n't worry - you 'll soon acclimatize . "
He 's been granted the ultimate accolade - his face on a postage stamp .
Her approval was the highest accolade he could receive .
New students may be accommodated in halls of residence .
formal There was n't enough space to accommodate the files .
The new policies fail to accommodate the disabled .
We always try to accommodate (= help ) our clients with financial assistance if necessary .
Some find it hard to accommodate themselves to the new working conditions .
I 'm sure she 'll help you - she 's always very accommodating .
There 's a shortage of cheap accommodation (= places to live ) .
We have first and second class accommodation (= seats ) on this flight .
Sweepstakes winners will enjoy a week-long stay in luxury accommodations in Las Vegas .
a song with piano accompaniment
humorous We worked to the accompaniment of (= while hearing the sound of ) Mr French's drill .
A dry champagne makes the ideal accompaniment for / to this dish .
The singer's accompanist on the piano was Charles Harman .
The course books are accompanied by four CDs .
Depression is almost always accompanied by insomnia .
The salmon was accompanied by (= served with ) a fresh green salad .
Would you like me to accompany you to your room ?
" May I accompany you to the ball ? " he asked her .
I have two tickets for the theatre on Saturday evening - would you like to accompany me ?
Miss Jessop accompanied Mr Bentley on the piano .
Front-page stories broke the news of the star leaving , and accompanying photographs showed her getting on the plane .
Children under twelve require an accompanying parent or guardian to see this movie .
The students accomplished the task in less than ten minutes .
She accomplished such a lot during her visit .
I feel as if I 've accomplished nothing since I left my job .
She 's a very accomplished pianist/painter/horsewoman .
He was accomplished in all the arts .
Getting the two leaders to sign a peace treaty was his greatest accomplishment .
We celebrated the successful accomplishment of our task .
Cordon bleu cookery is just one of her many accomplishments .
On 31 May the two leaders signed a peace accord .
Before 1987 , the accord between the Labour government and the unions was a simple affair .
The project is completely in accord with government policy .
She came of her own accord . No one asked her to come .
With one accord , the delegates walked out of the conference .
[ + two objects ] The massed crowds of supporters accorded him a hero's welcome .
Certainly in our society teachers do n't enjoy the respect that is accorded to doctors and lawyers .
His version of events does not accord with witnesses' statements .
In accordance with her wishes , she was buried in France .
According to Sarah they 're not getting on very well at the moment .
Students are all put in different groups according to their ability .
Did it all go according to plan ?
When we receive your instructions we will act accordingly .
She 's an expert in her field , and is paid accordingly .
I 'm usually accosted by beggars and drunks as I walk to the station .
I 've opened an account with a building society .
I paid the money into my account this morning .
UK She paid the cheque into her account .
US She deposited the check in her account .
I need to draw some money out of my account .
She gave a thrilling account of her life in the jungle .
He kept a detailed account of the suspect's movements .
Several eyewitnesses' accounts differed considerably from the official version of events .
By all accounts , San Francisco is a city that 's easy to fall in love with .
By his own account , he 's quite wealthy .
He does n't drink alcohol on account of his poor health .
More examplesDinner was somewhat delayed on account of David's rather tardy arrival . There are three factors to take into account : firstly cost , secondly time , and thirdly staff . Please do n't go to any bother on my account . Both his first and second wife divorced him on account of his womanizing . The jury must take into account any mitigating circumstances presented by the defense , such as previous good character .
Could you put it on / charge it to my account (= can I pay for it later ) , please ?
Do you have an account at this store / with us , madam ?
Could you please pay / settle your account in full (= give us all the money you owe us ) ?
If the advertising agency loses this account , it will make a big dent in their profits .
It 's of no account to me whether he comes or not .
His opinion is of little account to me .
She was accounted a genius by all who knew her work .
Synonym
Can you account for your absence last Friday ?
She was unable to account for over $ 5,000 (= she could not explain where the money was ) .
He has to account to his manager for (= tell his manager about and explain ) all his movements .
Students account for the vast majority of our customers .
She is accountable only to the managing director .
The recent tax reforms have made government more accountable for its spending .
Politicians should be accountable to the public who elected them .
He works in accountancy .
an accountancy firm
a firm of accountants
I keep my own accounts .
The agency was not accredited by the Philippine Consulate to offer contracts to Filipinos abroad .
an accredited drama school
The fund was increased by the accretion of new shareholders .
The room had n't been cleaned for years and showed several accretions of dirt and dust .
Interest will accrue on the account at a rate of seven percent .
Little benefit will accrue to the city (= it will receive little benefit ) from the new transport links .
How did Hispanics acculturate to life in America ?
As people accumulate more wealth , they tend to spend a greater proportion of their incomes .
The company said the debt was accumulated during its acquisition of nine individual businesses .
We 've accumulated so much rubbish over the years .
A thick layer of dust had accumulated in the room .
If you do n't go through the papers on your desk on a regular basis , they just keep on accumulating .
Despite this accumulation of evidence , the government persisted in doing nothing .
Accumulations of sand can be formed by the action of waves on coastal beaches .
the accumulative effect of many infections
We can predict changes with a surprising degree of accuracy .
an accurate machine
an accurate description
The figures they have used are just not accurate .
Her novel is an accurate reflection of life in Spain .
We hope to become more accurate in predicting earthquakes .
Opposite
You ca n't just make wild accusations like that !
He glared at me with an air of accusation .
[ + that ] What do you say to the accusation that you are unfriendly and unhelpful ?
When he spoke his tone was accusatory .
She gave me an accusatory look .
" It was n't my fault . " " Do n't worry , I 'm not accusing you . "
He 's been accused of robbery/murder .
Are you accusing me of lying ?
The surgeon was accused of negligence .
The government stands accused of eroding freedom of speech .
an accusing glance / look
It 'll take time for me to accustom myself to the changes .
She quickly became accustomed to his messy ways .
I 'm not accustomed to being treated like this .
She performed the task with her accustomed ease .
the ace of hearts/clubs/spades/diamonds
a tennis/flying ace
That 's the third ace Lawson has served this match .
I was up all night studying , but it was worth it - I aced my chemistry final .
He 's an ace basketball player .
That 's an ace bike you 've got there .
The letters show the acerbic wit for which Parker was both admired and feared .
Most acetabular fractures occur in motor vehicle accidents or high - velocity falls .
Prosthetic replacement has been used successfully when the acetabulum has sustained damage .
Patients with advanced achalasia may be better managed with primary oesophageal resection .
As you get older , you have all sorts of aches and pains .
I 've got a dull (= slight) ache in my lower back .
earache/a headache/toothache/backache
I 've had a stomach ache all morning .
My head/tooth/back aches .
I ache/I'm aching all over .
I 've got one or two aching muscles after yesterday's run .
He was lonely and aching for love .
Before you set your targets , make sure that they are achievable .
The government's training policy , he claimed , was achieving its objectives .
She finally achieved her ambition to visit South America .
I 've been working all day , but I feel as if I 've achieved nothing .
See also
An Olympic silver medal is a remarkable achievement for one so young .
The Tale of Genji has been described as the greatest achievement of Japanese literature .
It gives you a sense of achievement if you actually make it to the end of a very long book .
Not enough attention is given to the low achievers in the class .
Maths has always been my Achilles heel .
Sung by the world's greatest tenor , this aria is achingly beautiful .
I 've been feeling tired and achy (= full of pains ) all morning .
acetic/hydrochloric/lactic acid
Vinegar is an acid .
an acid taste/smell
her acid wit
When she spoke her tone was acid .
Mild cases of heartburn and acid reflux can be treated by simple lifestyle changes .
The books are printed on acid-free paper so they will last for generations .
a slightly acidic taste
This low pH level clearly shows the acidity of the soil here .
Acinic cell carcinoma is the fourth most common malignant salivary gland tumour .
[ + -ing verb ] She acknowledged having been at fault .
[ + that ] She acknowledged that she had been at fault .
You must acknowledge the truth of her argument .
Historians generally acknowledge her as a genius in her field .
[ + obj + to infinitive ] She is usually acknowledged to be one of our best artists .
They refused to acknowledge (= to recognize officially ) the new government .
He did n't even acknowledge my presence (= show that he had seen me ) .
The government wo n't even acknowledge the existence of the problem .
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter .
All I want is some acknowledgment that his behaviour is unreasonable .
We sent her a copy of the book in acknowledgment of her part in its creation .
I applied for four jobs , but I 've only had one acknowledgment so far .
Acne is the curse of adolescence .
The microphone converts acoustic waves to electrical signals for transmission .
an acoustic guitar
The concert was recorded in a church that is famous for its acoustics .
He was diagnosed with acoustic neuroma .
It is unclear whether this treatment can improve hearing in patients with acoustic neuromas .
Take time to acquaint yourself with the rules .
The Broadcasting Museum offers workshops to acquaint children with the world of radio .
a business acquaintance
It was at the Taylors' party that I first made his acquaintance (= first met him ) .
I was n't sure about Darryl when I first met her , but on further acquaintance (= knowing her a little more ) I rather like her .
Sadly , my acquaintance with Spanish literature is rather limited .
" Do you know Daphne ? " " No , I 'm afraid we 're not acquainted . "
I am not personally acquainted with the gentleman in question .
Police said the thieves were obviously well acquainted with the alarm system at the department store .
Reluctantly , he acquiesced to / in the plans .
She has a very acquiescent nature .
I was wearing a newly/recently acquired jacket .
I seem to have acquired (= have got although I do n't know how ) two copies of this book .
He has acquired a reputation for being difficult to work with .
A business with so much growth is sure to generate interest among potential acquirers .
The acquisition of huge amounts of data has helped our research enormously .
Language acquisition (= learning a language without being taught ) starts at a very young age .
The museum's latest acquisition is a four-million-dollar sculpture .
I like your earrings - are they a recent acquisition ? (= Did you get them recently ? )
We live in an acquisitive society that views success primarily in terms of material possessions .
It has been one of the most acquisitive firms in recent times , buying over a dozen businesses in the last 18 months .
He was known for his acquisitiveness , buying any work of art that caught his eye .
The group's acquisitiveness seems to be holding down its stock price .
She was acquitted of all the charges against her .
Five months ago he was acquitted on a shoplifting charge .
Compare
I thought that he acquitted himself admirably in today's meeting .
The first trial ended in a hung jury , the second in acquittal .
Of the three cases that went to trial , two ended in acquittals .
He 's got 400 acres of land in Russia .
Clouds of acrid smoke issued from the building .
an acrimonious dispute
Their marriage ended eight years ago in an acrimonious divorce .
an acrobatic leap into the air
an acrobatic young dancer
He had spent the last ten years in a Peking Opera school , studying martial arts and acrobatics .
Compare
AIDS is an acronym for "Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome " .
She walked across the field/road .
They 're building a new bridge across the river .
When I reached the river , I simply swam across .
The library is just across the road .
Voting took place peacefully across most of the country .
Getting a train across country from Cambridge to Chester can be difficult .
The proposed across - the-board cuts for all state agencies will total $ 84 million .
The improvement has been across the board , with all divisions either increasing profits or reducing losses .
The initiative has across - the-board support .
See also
an acrylic scarf/sweater
Do n't be so silly - you 're acting like a child !
He acted as if he 'd never met me before .
[ + to infinitive ] Engineers acted quickly to repair the damaged pipes .
She acted without thinking .
Who is acting for / on behalf of (= who is representing ) the defendant ?
He never acts on other people's advice (= does what other people suggest ) .
Acting on impulse (= without thinking first ) can get you into a lot of trouble .
The anaesthetic acted quickly .
Ellis Pike was chosen to act the part of the lawyer in the film .
Have you ever acted in a play before ?
Why are you always acting the fool ?
an act of aggression/bravery/madness/terrorism
a kind/thoughtless/selfish act
The simple act of telling someone about a problem can help .
Primitive people regarded storms as an act of God .
artistic representations of the sexual act
Was she really upset or was that just an act ?
a comedy/juggling/trapeze act
Our next act is a very talented young musician .
Shakespeare's plays were written in five acts .
The hero does not enter until the second act / Act Two .
More examplesThe main characters are offstage for most of the second act . The best part of his stage act was a brilliant Elvis Presley impression . I saw the worst comedy act I 've ever seen last night - it was absolutely dreadful!He put on an act of bravery , but I know that he was absolutely terrified . They may seem to be very polite and friendly , but it 's only an act .
an Act of Parliament
the Betting and Gaming Act
Almost two hundred suspects were detained in the UK last year under the Prevention of Terrorism Act .
The state legislature passed an act banning the sale of automatic weapons .
He was asked to act as an adviser on the project .
Some people say that capital punishment acts as a deterrent .
He was asked to act as an adviser on the project .
Some people say that capital punishment acts as a deterrent .
These kids act out because their lives are a mess .
The children acted out their favourite poem .
Children's negative feelings often get acted out in bad behaviour .
Sophie got bored and started acting up .
My car always acts up in cold weather .
Her shoulder was acting up (= hurting because of injury ) .
Stop acting the goat !
He wants to get into acting .
He 'll be the acting director until they can appoint a permanent one .
This problem calls for swift/prompt action from the government .
[ + to infinitive ] Action to prevent the spread of the disease is high on the government's agenda .
We must take action (= do something ) to deal with the problem before it spreads to other areas .
So what 's the plan of action ? (= What are we going to do ? )
The complaints system swings into action (= starts to work ) as soon as a claim is made .
The committee was spurred into action (= encouraged to do something ) by the threat of government cuts .
She has to accept the consequences of her actions .
I asked him to explain his actions .
I 'll say the words and you can mime the actions .
It only needs a small wrist action (= movement of the wrist ) to start the process .
I like movies with a lot of action .
In her last novel , the action (= the main events ) moves between Greece and southern Spain .
A journalist has to be where the action is .
More examplesI like a lowbrow action movie once in a while . Her latest film is the staple offering of action and comedy which we have come to expect . It 's a typical action film with plenty of spectacular stunts . At various points in the play , the action tips over from comedy into farce . He landed a part in a multi-million pound action thriller and made the Hollywood A list .
They recorded the action of the drug on the nervous system .
Her younger son was killed in action .
He was reported missing in action .
He saw action (= fought as a soldier ) in the trenches .
We studied the action of the digestive system .
The car has a very smooth braking action .
a libel action
She brought an action ( for negligence ) against the hospital .
A criminal action was brought against him .
The book was halted in South Africa by a threat of legal action .
I 'll just run through the minutes of the last meeting , raising those points that still have to be actioned .
They showed an action replay of the goal .
The whole school was at action stations for the inspectors' visit .
Right, everyone - action stations ! We 're starting in three minutes .
an action-packed thriller/weekend/finale
She denies that her company has been involved in any actionable activity .
The alarm is activated by the lightest pressure .
physically / mentally active
You have to try to keep active as you grow older .
Enemy forces remain active in the mountainous areas around the city .
She 's very active in (= involved in ) local politics .
Both of his parents were very politically active .
It is important to educate children before they become sexually active .
He takes a more active role in the team nowadays .
She 's an active member of her trade union (= not only belongs to it , but does work to help it ) .
" Catrin told me " is an active sentence , and " I was told by Catrin " is passive .
Compare
He 's very actively involved in (= does a lot of work for ) the local party .
It 's nice having a man who actively encourages me to spend money .
I 've been actively looking for a job for six months .
black/student activism
The levels of political activism in this country have greatly declined .
He 's been a trade union/party activist for many years .
an animal rights activist
There was a lot of activity in preparation for the Queen's visit .
Economists are concerned by the low level of economic activity .
There was a sudden flurry of activity when the director walked in .
He was found guilty of terrorist activity .
criminal activities
His spare-time activities include cooking , tennis , and windsurfing .
We offer our guests a wide range of outdoor/sporting activities .
" Who 's your favourite actor ? " "Robert de Niro . "
She 's the highest-paid actress in Hollywood .
We had estimated about 300 visitors , but the actual number was much higher .
The exams are in July , but the actual results (= the results themselves ) do n't appear until September .
I thought she was Portuguese , but in actual fact she 's Brazilian .
He 's out of touch with the actualities of life in Africa .
In actuality , there were few job losses last year .
the techniques that athletes use to actualize their potential
I did n't actually see her - I just heard her voice .
So what actually happened ?
I did n't like him at first , but in the end I actually got quite fond of him .
I 'm one of the few people who does n't actually like champagne .
humorous Do n't tell me he actually paid for you !
" Alexander looks like he 'd be good at sports . " " Actually , he 's not . "
Actually , Gavin , it was Tuesday of last week , not Wednesday .
" Do you mind if I smoke ? " " Well , actually , I 'd rather you did n't . "
These figures are based on actuarial calculations of the risks involved .
A detonator is actuated by heat , percussion , friction , or electricity .
He was actuated almost entirely by altruism .
Tiredness also affects visual acuity .
He was a man of great political acuity .
She has considerable business/financial acumen .
Acupuncture originated in China .
She felt acute embarrassment/anxiety/concern at his behaviour .
The problem of poverty is particularly acute in rural areas .
an acute attack of appendicitis
an acute sense of smell
a woman of acute intelligence/judgment
Management is acutely aware of the resentment that their decision may cause .
Another scandal would be acutely embarrassing for the government .
She acutely identified all the main problems .
I often prefer the ads on TV to the actual programmes .
西元（拉丁語Anno Domini的縮寫）
BC
an ad hoc committee/meeting
We deal with problems on an ad hoc basis (= as they happen ) .
" Why was she such a lousy boss ? " " Oh , because she was unreasonable , disrespectful , rude , inconsiderate - I could go on ad infinitum . "
I 'd forgotten the notes for my speech so I had to do it ad lib .
She ad - libbed her way through the entire speech .
He talks ad nauseam about how clever his children are .
He remembered the old adage " Look before you leap " .
Synonym
Barber's Adagio for Strings
[ + that ] I 've told her she should stay at home and rest but she 's adamant that she 's coming .
Many software companies have adapted popular programs to the new operating system .
The recipe here is a pork roast adapted from Caroline O'Neill's book " Louisiana Kitchen " .
[ + to infinitive ] We had to adapt our plans to fit Jack's timetable .
The play had been adapted for (= changed to make it suitable for ) children .
Davies is busy adapting Brinkworth's latest novel for television .
The good thing about children is that they adapt very easily to new environments .
It took me a while to adapt to the new job .
The survivors in this life seem to be those who are adaptable to change .
Evolution occurs as a result of adaptation to new environments .
Last year he starred in the film adaptation of Bill Cronshaw's best-selling novel .
If you add (= calculate the total of ) three and four you get seven .
It 's $ 45 - $ 50 if you add in (= include ) the cost of postage .
Do n't forget to add on your travelling expenses / add your expenses on .
Beat the butter and sugar together and slowly add the eggs .
She 's added a Picasso to her collection .
Her colleagues' laughter only added to (= increased ) her embarrassment .
[ + that ] She was sad , she said , but added (= said also ) that she felt she had made the right decision .
[ + speech ] " Oh , and thank you for all your help ! " he added as he was leaving .
She added the bill up .
I 'm not very good at adding up !
The discovery that the government was aware of the cover-up has really added fuel to the fire .
We ’ve added on a couple of rooms to the house .
You can be sure she 'll always add salt to the conversation !
The various building programmes add up to several thousand new homes .
We thought we 'd bought lots of food , but it did n't add up to much when we 'd spread it out on the table .
It all added up to a lot of hard work for all of us .
Their proposals do not add up to any real help for the poor .
A printer is a useful add-on .
Legal expenses cover is often sold as an add-on to household insurance policies .
He had the added disadvantage of being the only man present .
She lost her job last week , and now added to that she 's pregnant again .
The printer's added value makes it worth the extra cost .
a drug/heroin addict
a gambling addict
humorous I 'm a chocolate/shopping addict .
By the age of 14 he was addicted to heroin .
I 'm addicted to (= I very often eat ) chocolate .
I know that if I start watching a soap opera I immediately become hopelessly addicted .
Tobacco is highly addictive .
The problem with video games is that they 're addictive .
These nuts are addictive - I ca n't stop eating them .
He 's got an addictive personality .
Twice a week the children are tested in basic mathematical skills such as addition (= calculating the total of different numbers put together ) and subtraction .
In addition to his apartment in Manhattan , he has a villa in Italy and a castle in Scotland .
A secretary would be a welcome/useful addition to our staff .
humorous I hear you 're expecting a small addition to the family (= you are going to have a baby ) !
Most working environments are improved by the addition of (= by adding ) a few plants and pictures .
We 're building an addition to our house .
There will be an extra charge for any additional passengers .
food additives
This margarine is full of additives - just look at the label !
I think my brain 's been addled by the heat !
her business/home address
a change of address
What 's your email address ?
Do you have their Web address ?
She gave an address to the Royal Academy .
He addressed a few introductory remarks to the audience .
He likes to be addressed as " Sir " or "Mr Partridge " .
The issue of funding has yet to be addressed .
The parcel was wrongly addressed .
So why did you open a letter that was addressed to me ?
None of the evidence adduced in court was conclusive .
The patient is unable to adduct her right eye .
An abduction pillow is used to prevent adduction of the hip .
When you move your leg toward the midline of the body , you are using adductor muscles .
She 's very adept at dealing with the media .
Tamsin Palmer gave a technically adept performance on the piano .
Have we got adequate food for 20 guests ?
I did n't have adequate time to prepare .
It 's not a big salary but it 's adequate for our needs .
The council's provision for the elderly is barely adequate (= is not enough ) .
[ + to infinitive ] Will future oil supplies be adequate to meet world needs ?
Opposite
A smooth, dry surface helps the tiles adhere to the wall .
She adhered to her principles / ideals throughout her life .
They failed to adhere to the terms of the agreement/treaty .
The translator has obviously adhered very strictly to the original text .
He was noted for his strict adherence to the rules .
an adherent surface
She has long been an adherent of the Communist Party .
At this stage a resin is used with a high level of adhesion .
You 'll need a/some strong adhesive to mend that chair .
She bade (= said to ) him adieu and left .
They work in adjacent buildings .
They lived in a house adjacent to the railway .
" Big " , " boring " , " purple " , and " obvious " are all adjectives .
The stables adjoin the west wing of the house .
It 's at this point that these three neighbourhoods adjoin .
We asked for adjoining rooms .
The meeting was adjourned until Tuesday .
Shall we adjourn for lunch ?
Shall we adjourn to the sitting room for coffee ?
[ + to infinitive ] Half an hour into the game Paterson was adjudged to have fouled Jackson and was sent off .
[ + noun / adj ] He was adjudged bankrupt by the court .
Fairbanks was adjudged the winner .
He was asked to adjudicate on the dispute .
He was called in to adjudicate a local land dispute .
[ + two objects ] The game was adjudicated a win for Black .
She acted as adjudicator in the dispute .
I hoped I would find the computer course a useful adjunct to my other studies .
The judge adjured him to answer truthfully .
If the chair is too high you can adjust it to suit you .
As a teacher you have to adjust your methods to suit the needs of slower children .
She adjusted her skirt , took a deep breath , and walked into the room .
I ca n't adjust to living on my own .
Her eyes slowly adjusted to the dark .
The lifestyle is so very different - it takes a while to adjust .
The height of the steering wheel is adjustable .
Is the strap on this helmet adjustable ?
She made a few minor adjustments to the focus of her camera .
He has so far failed to make the adjustment from school to work .
Many of the symptoms in an adjustment disorder overlap with those of a diagnosis of major depression .
The economy has been badly administered by the present government .
The economy has been badly administered by the present government .
to administer medicine/punishment/relief
Tests will be administered to schoolchildren at seven and twelve years .
figurative The latest opinion polls have administered a severe blow to the party .
/ˈæd.mɪn/ us
[ U ] the arrangements and tasks needed to control the operation of a plan or organization
Teachers complain that more of their time is taken up with administration than with teaching .
She has little experience in admin (= in organizing a business , etc . ) .
The decision to cancel the trip was made by the school administration .
the Obama administration / the last Republican administration
There are strict controls on the administration of drugs .
The company has gone into administration , in order for money to be returned to creditors .
an administrative problem
Your responsibilities will be mainly administrative .
From 1969 to 1971 , he was administrator of the Illinois state drug abuse program .
She works as a school administrator .
I think you showed admirable tact/restraint/self-control in your answer .
The police did an admirable job in keeping the fans calm .
Admiral Nelson /Horatio Nelson
[ as form of address ] Yes , Admiral .
My admiration for that woman grows daily .
She gazed in admiration at his broad, muscular shoulders .
We stood for a few moments , admiring the view .
I was just admiring your jacket , Delia .
I admired him for his determination .
I really admire people who can work in such difficult conditions .
She 's got plenty of admirers .
She 's got a secret admirer who keeps sending her gifts .
The policy has few admirers (= few people like it ) .
Annette was getting lots of admiring looks /glances in her new red dress .
She was surrounded by a group of admiring photographers .
The judge ruled that new evidence was admissible .
Opposite
Her silence was taken as an admission of guilt/defeat .
[ + that ] I felt he would see my giving up now as an admission that I was wrong .
By / On his own admission (= as he has said ) he has achieved little since he took over the company .
How much do they charge for admission ?
Admission to the exhibition will be by invitation only .
There 's a notice outside the building that says " No admission before twelve noon " .
Half of all hospital admissions are emergencies , and these are treated straight away .
He admitted his guilt/mistake .
[ + ( that ) ] She admitted ( that ) she had made a mistake .
[ + -ing verb ] She admitted making a mistake .
At first he denied stealing the money but he later admitted ( to ) it .
I was n't entirely honest with him , I admit .
[ + to infinitive ] The new law was generally admitted to be difficult to enforce .
After several attempts to untie the knot , I admitted defeat and cut through it with a knife .
Each ticket admits one member and one guest .
Men will not be admitted to the restaurant without a tie .
literary A gap between the curtains admitted the faint glimmer of a street lamp .
UK She was admitted to hospital suffering from shock .
US She was admitted to the hospital suffering from shock .
The present schedule does not admit of modification (= it can not be changed ) .
The latest events admit of several interpretations .
The sign read " Private - no admittance " .
The enquiry centred on how the assassin had gained admittance to (= succeeded in entering ) the building .
Admittedly , I could have tried harder but I still do n't think all this criticism is fair .
Platinum combines with phosphorus and arsenic and is seldom found without an admixture of related metals .
His mother admonished him for eating too quickly .
Her teacher admonished her to work harder for her exams .
The most common parental admonition must surely be " Do n't stay out late " .
And so , without further ado , let me introduce tonight's speaker .
an adobe house
She had a troubled adolescence .
yet another novel about the joys and sorrows of adolescence
an adolescent boy
She walked in on the arm of some blond Adonis .
They 've adopted a baby girl .
She had the child adopted (= she gave her baby to someone else to take care of ) .
They have no children of their own , but they 're hoping to adopt .
I think it 's time to adopt a different strategy in my dealings with him .
The new tax would force companies to adopt energy-saving measures .
He 's adopted a remarkably light-hearted attitude towards the situation .
Dr Kennedy has been adopted as the party's candidate for South Cambridge .
Roz has adopted one or two funny mannerisms since she 's been away .
They 've got two adopted children and one of their own .
Spain is my adopted country .
She was homeless and had to put her child up for adoption (= ask for the child to be taken by someone else as their own ) .
The last ten years have seen a dramatic fall in the number of adoptions .
Several suggestions have been offered for adoption by the panel .
England was Conrad's country of adoption .
The adoption of a woman candidate was seen as controversial .
She has the most adorable two-year-old girl .
an adorable puppy
her complete adoration of her brother
The painting depicts the Three Wise Men kneeling in adoration of the baby Jesus .
She has one son and she adores him .
I absolutely adore chocolate .
[ + -ing verb ] Do n't you just adore lying in a hot bath ?
Let us adore God for all his works .
I refuse to play the part of the adoring wife .
The bride's hair was adorned with white flowers .
See
These arguments always get my adrenalin going (= make me excited or angry ) .
He spent three days adrift on his yacht .
Da Silva plays a bright, lonely student from New York , adrift in small-town Arizona .
The hem of my skirt 's come adrift again .
Something seems to have gone adrift in our calculations .
an adroit reaction/answer/movement of the hand
She became adroit at dealing with difficult questions .
As a born performer , she loves the excitement and she loves the adulation .
An adult under English law is someone over 18 years old .
Adults pay an admission charge but children get in free .
an adult male/elephant
She spent most of her adult life in prison .
Let 's try to be adult about this .
There were complaints that the beer had been adulterated with water .
Her husband was a compulsive adulterer .
Many people in public life have committed adultery .
Responsibility , I suppose , is what defines adulthood .
The project's objectives were adumbrated in the report .
The fire advanced steadily through the forest .
The troops advanced on the city (= approached it , ready to attack ) .
We have advanced greatly in our knowledge of the universe .
Her study has considerably advanced (= helped ) the cause of equal rights .
He 's just trying to advance (= improve ) his own career .
[ + two objects ] Could you advance me £ 500 until Tuesday ?
the theory advanced in this article
Nothing could stop the advance of the floodwaters .
Recent advances in medical science mean that this illness can now be cured .
She asked for a £300 advance on her salary .
She rejected his unwelcome advances .
We got no advance warning /notice of the changes .
This is the most advanced type of engine available .
an advanced English course
All she was interested in was the advancement of her own career .
He only recently stopped working , due to his advancing years .
The advantage of booking tickets in advance is that you get better seats .
Despite the twin advantages of wealth and beauty , she did not have a happy life .
[ + to infinitive ] It would be to your advantage (= it would improve the situation for you ) to agree to his demands .
For a goalkeeper , it 's a great advantage to have big hands .
His height and reach give him a big advantage over (= make him better than ) other boxers .
UK formal " Do you know how old I am ? " " I 'm afraid you have the advantage of me there (= you know the answer but I do not ) . "
I thought I 'd take advantage of the sports facilities while I 'm here .
I think she takes advantage of his good nature .
I know she 's offered to babysit , but I do n't want her to think we 're taking advantage of her .
Advantage Miss Williams !
The ref should have played advantage because Rooney would have been through on goal .
The lower tax rate is particularly advantageous to poorer families .
Life was transformed by the advent of the steam engine .
an adventitious event/situation
She had some exciting adventures in Egypt .
We got lost on the Metro - it was quite an adventure .
Sam wo n't come - he 's got no sense of adventure (= he does not enjoy dangerous or exciting situations ) .
He was something of an adventurer , living most of his life abroad .
He was portrayed in the press as a gold digger and adventurer .
I 'm trying to be more adventurous with my cooking .
She led an adventurous life .
In the phrase " she smiled cheerfully " , the word " cheerfully " is an adverb .
In the phrase " the house was spotlessly clean " , the word " spotlessly " is an adverb .
In the old days of two-party adversarial politics , voting was easy .
He saw her as his main adversary within the company .
The match has been cancelled because of adverse weather conditions .
They received a lot of adverse publicity/criticism about the changes .
So far the drug is thought not to have any adverse effects .
She was always cheerful in adversity .
The road to happiness is paved with adversities .
an advert for the local radio station
We advertised our car in the local newspaper .
He advertises his services on the company notice board .
I 'm going to advertise for (= put a notice in the newspaper , local shop , etc . , asking for ) someone to clean my house .
There 's no harm in applying for other jobs , but if I were you , I would n't advertise the fact (= make it generally known ) at work .
a television/newspaper advertisement for a new car
She scanned the job/property advertisements in the paper .
I 'm afraid I 'm not a very good advertisement for the diet since I 've actually put on weight !
Fiona works in advertising .
the advertising industry
Steven gave me some good advice .
I think I 'll take your advice (= do what you suggest ) and get the green dress .
Can I give you a piece of advice ?
I need some advice on which computer to buy .
[ + to infinitive ] My advice is to go by train .
We went to Paris on Sarah's advice .
[ + to infinitive ] It 's advisable to book seats at least a week in advance .
A certain amount of caution is advisable at this point .
[ + to infinitive ] I think I 'd advise him to leave the company .
His doctor advised him against smoking .
I 'd strongly advise against making a sudden decision .
[ + that ] They 're advising that children be kept at home .
[ + -ing verb ] I 'd advise waiting until tomorrow .
[ + question word ] She advised us when to come .
She advises the president (= gives information and suggests types of action ) on African policy .
You would be well advised to (= it would be wise for you to ) have the appropriate vaccinations before you go abroad .
They were advised of their rights .
[ + that ] Our solicitors have advised that the costs could be enormous .
This action is barbaric - and I use the word advisedly .
a counseling and advisement center
Contact Dr Gray about academic advisement .
student/graduate/career advisement
Thank you for your input Mr Walters - I 'll take what you 've said under advisement .
She is the party's main economic adviser .
a financial adviser
She is employed by the president in an advisory capacity .
weather/travel advisories
Television companies sometimes broadcast advisories before violent movies .
[ + -ing verb ] She advocates taking a more long-term view .
He advocates the return of capital punishment .
He 's a strong advocate of state ownership of the railways .
The project was set up under the aegis of the university .
aerated water
Earthworms help to aerate the soil .
aerated soil
Meanwhile , the massive aerial bombardment/bombing of military targets continued unabated .
aerodynamics
aeronautics
The crowd was entertained with a display of aerobatics .
Compare
She does aerobics .
I go to aerobics (= to a class where we are taught such exercises ) once a week .
an aerobics instructor/teacher
an aerodynamic design/car
She has her own private aeroplane .
the aerospace industry
an aerospace company
The ugliness of the city would make an aesthete like you shudder .
The new building has little aesthetic value/appeal .
furniture that is both aesthetic and functional
People came from afar to see the show .
humorous I 've never actually spoken to him - I 've just admired him from afar .
He struck me as an affable sort of a man .
She was quite affable at the meeting .
She organizes her financial affairs very efficiently .
He 's always meddling in (= trying to influence ) other people's affairs .
What I do in my spare time is my affair (= only involves me ) .
The arms-dealing affair has severely damaged the reputation of the government .
The president's handling of the affair has been criticized .
She 's having an affair with a married man .
The book does n't make any mention of his love affairs .
an extramarital affair
The party turned out to be a quiet affair .
She wore a long black velvet affair .
Both buildings were badly affected by the fire .
The divorce affected every aspect of her life .
It 's a disease that affects mainly older people .
I was deeply affected by the film (= it caused strong feelings in me ) .
To all his problems she affected indifference .
At university he affected an upper-class accent .
He 's recently affected a hat and cane .
She has so many little affectations .
His manner reeks of affectation .
" It does n't concern me , " he said with an affectation of nonchalance .
an affected manner/style of writing
I found her very affected .
It was an affecting sight .
She felt no affection for the child .
He had a deep affection for his aunt .
The former president still holds a place in the nation's affections .
Sula seems to have transferred her affections from Jon to his brother .
an affectionate kiss
He 's an affectionate little boy .
He has no affective ties to his family .
a college affiliated to the University of Mumbai
The school is affiliated with a national association of driving schools .
Our college is an affiliate of the university .
The group has affiliations with several organizations abroad .
Their lack of affiliation to any particular bank allows them to give objective financial advice .
political affiliations
She seems to have a natural affinity for / with water .
There are several close affinities between the two paintings .
[ + ( that ) ] The suspect affirmed ( that ) he had been at home all evening .
She affirmed her intention to apply for the post .
The government has affirmed its commitment to equal rights .
an affirmative answer/response
Opposite
She asked the question expecting an affirmative .
She affixed a stamp to the envelope .
It is an illness that afflicts women more than men .
a country afflicted by civil war
Malnutrition is one of the common afflictions of the poor .
I do n't know how he can afford a new car on his salary .
Few people are able to afford cars like that .
She could n't afford the time off work to see him .
[ + to infinitive ] I ca n't afford to buy a house .
The hut afforded little protection from the elements .
[ + two objects ] Her seat afforded her an uninterrupted view of the stage .
nice clothes at affordable prices
They have increased their provision of affordable housing in order to make home ownership accessible to buyers who would otherwise be unable to buy .
According to the guidelines , ten percent of the dwellings in the development must be affordable .
Wallace was charged with causing an affray at a Southampton nightclub .
The "ch" sound at the beginning and end of "church " is an affricate .
He regarded the comments as an affront to his dignity .
I was most affronted by his comments .
an affronted look/glance
a club for model railway aficionados
an aficionado of French cinema
We export our products to countries as far afield as Japan and Canada .
Our students come from Europe , Asia , and even further afield .
The whole village was aflame .
It was autumn and the trees were aflame with colour .
Her cheeks were aflame with embarrassment/anger .
Aflame with desire , he took her in his arms .
She spent seven days afloat on a raft .
He managed to keep / stay afloat by holding on to the side of the boat .
Many small businesses are struggling to stay / keep afloat .
I 'm all aflutter about meeting him after so long .
Paul had walked into the room and set my heart aflutter .
There are plans afoot to launch a new radio station .
The aforementioned Mr Parkes then entered the cinema .
The aforementioned was / were seen waiting outside the building .
He was 15 when he first ran afoul of the law .
At one point Seeger fell afoul of the US government for his anti-war actions .
He was / felt suddenly afraid .
I 've always been afraid of flying/heights/spiders .
She was afraid for her children (= feared that they might be hurt ) .
[ + to infinitive ] Do n't be afraid to say what you think .
[ + ( that ) ] She was afraid ( that ) he might be upset if she told him .
This is your room - it 's rather small , I 'm afraid .
I do n't agree at all , I 'm afraid .
I 'm afraid you 've completely misunderstood the question .
[ + ( that ) ] I 'm afraid ( that ) we ca n't come this evening after all .
" Was she impressed with our work ? " " I 'm afraid not (= no ) . "
" Does this mean I 've got to leave ? " " I 'm afraid so . " (= Yes . )
She tore up the letter and started afresh .
We agreed to look afresh at her original proposal .
African history/music
Afro-Caribbean culture
Afro-American literature
Let 's go for a walk after breakfast .
Some people believe in life after death .
Her name came after mine on the list .
There 's a good film on the day after tomorrow .
She waited until well after midnight .
US It 's a quarter after four .
She just keeps on working , day after day , week after week (= continuously ) .
We 've had meeting after meeting (= many meetings ) to discuss this point .
Jessie seemed very small after (= in comparison with ) Michael's children .
After (= despite ) everything I 've done for you , is this the way you treat me ?
After (= because of ) what she did to me , I 'll never trust her again .
The children have to learn to tidy up after themselves (= after they have made things untidy ) .
She slammed the door after (= behind ) her .
We ran after (= followed ) him , but he escaped .
Could you lock up after you (= when you leave ) , please ?
The police are after him .
I 'm after a tie to go with this shirt .
I 'm sure she 's after my husband .
He 's after Jane's job (= wants it for himself ) .
" Can I pour you some coffee ? " " Oh no , after you . "
a painting after Titian
a concerto after Mozart
He was named Mark after his grandfather .
Hilary got here at midday and Nick arrived soon after .
I ca n't go next week - how about the week after (= the following week ) ?
not standard She got back at 4.30 and went to see Emilie after (= after she got back ) .
Three months after they moved out , the house was still empty .
Soon / shortly after we set off , the car started to make a strange noise .
I went to the post office straight / immediately after I left you .
an after - dinner speech
an after - hours club
after - sales service
The rain has stopped , so the game will go ahead after all .
I do like her - after all , she is my sister .
I often do some of my own work after hours .
The police are trying to stop after - hours drinking .
She 's a woman after my own heart .
Headaches are an aftereffect of this sort of accident .
The team were basking in the afterglow of winning the cup .
They 'll be reunited in the afterlife .
Many more people died in the aftermath of the explosion .
It was a sunny afternoon .
She works three afternoons a week at the library .
It was on a Saturday afternoon .
My baby usually sleeps in the afternoon .
Let 's go to the park this afternoon .
I spoke to her yesterday afternoon .
She 's coming round on Wednesday afternoon .
He 's been in a bad mood all afternoon .
She likes to have an afternoon nap .
We got an early-/mid-/late-afternoon flight .
Afternoon , Bob !
Compare
He works afternoons .
The hotel has a huge bar that we afterpartied in .
What 's for afters , Dad ?
Synonym
The initial earthquake was followed by a series of aftershocks .
The medicine left an unpleasant aftertaste .
She only asked me to her party as an afterthought .
The pillars seem to have been added to the entrance as an afterthought .
We had tea , and afterwards we sat in the garden for a while .
They separated , and soon / shortly afterwards Jane left the country .
Could you spell your name again , please ?
If he does it again I 'll have to tell him .
Deborah 's late again .
Throw it away and start again .
We went to Edinburgh and back again all in one day .
Get some rest and you 'll soon be well again .
You are reminded once again of the author's love of the sea .
He drove me back home last night . Never again !
I 'm afraid it 's been delayed yet again .
I 've told you again and again not to do that .
It 's already taken me two hours - I do n't want to have to do it all over again .
They are paid half as much again as we are .
She spoke against the decision to close the college .
50 people voted against the new proposal .
I 'm very much against the idea that it is the woman's job to bring up the child .
Germany are playing against Brazil in the cup final tonight .
She 's always rebelled against authority .
She sold the house even though it was against his wishes .
They called a demonstration to protest against proposed job cuts .
Are you for or against my proposal ?
Sanctions against the country should be lifted .
Stricter controls will help in the fight against inflation .
Criminal charges will be brought against the driver .
They decided not to take legal action against him .
They were up against a powerful pressure group .
We came up against a lot of problems in the course of building our extension .
The chances/odds against you winning such a competition are enormous .
It 's against the law (= illegal ) to leave children under a certain age alone in the house .
It 's against my beliefs/principles to be nice to someone I dislike just because they 're in a senior position .
Against all probability (= although it was extremely unlikely ) we found ourselves in the same hotel .
I would n't dare say anything against him (= criticize him ) to his mother !
I 've nothing against him - I just do n't have much in common with him .
Lack of experience will generally count against you in an interview .
Why do n't we put the bed against the wall ?
He loved the feel of her soft hair against his skin .
The rain beat against her face as she struggled through the wind .
The police officer had him up against the wall , both arms behind his back .
She leaned against the door .
Paintings look best against a simple white wall .
The last part of the course was hard because I was running against the wind .
Commuting is not so bad when you are travelling against the traffic .
We 've insured the car against fire , theft , and accident .
The police have to arm themselves against attack .
Against all the odds , he recovered .
It was a real race against time to get all the costumes sewn for the play .
Against my better judgment , I gave him the job .
We watched , our mouths agape in excitement .
Compare
Do you know the age of that building ?
What age (= how old ) is your brother ?
I 'd guess she 's about my age (= she is about as old as I am ) .
She was 74 years of age when she wrote her first novel .
I was married with four children at your age .
She 's starting to show / look her age (= to look as old as she is ) .
I 'm really beginning to feel my age (= feel old ) .
His girlfriend's twice his age (= twice as old as he is ) .
the Victorian age
the modern age
the nuclear age
It takes ages to cook .
I 've been waiting for ages .
It 's been ages / an age since we last spoke .
More examplesIt might take him ages but he 'll do it eventually . It took me ages to pluck up the courage to ask for a promotion . I've been waiting in this queue for ages . It seems like ages since we last spoke . My sister always spends ages in the bathroom .
Her back was bent with age .
This cheese/wine improves with age .
Her temper has n't improved with age !
She 's aged since the last time we met .
The brandy is aged in oak for ten years .
blockage
shrinkage
wastage
All breakages must be paid for .
bondage
marriage
shortage
orphanage
vicarage
51 percent of enquiries were from those in the 25 to 40 age group .
the upper age limit
Is this movie age - appropriate for my child ?
The actors all look age - appropriate for their characters .
If I wait another two years before I apply , I will become age - barred .
an age-old story of love and betrayal
uk
/eɪdʒd/ [ before noun ] of the age of
They 've got one daughter , Isabel , aged three .
uk
/ˈeɪ.dʒɪd/ old
She has two rather aged aunts .
The hospital was built to meet the needs of the aged .
the ageing process
an ageing Hollywood actor
She is beautiful and , at 43 , somehow ageless .
an advertising/employment/estate/travel agency
an overseas aid agency
the Central Intelligence Agency
She was freed from prison through the agency of her doctor .
There were several important items on the agenda .
The question of security is high on the agenda for this afternoon's meeting .
Women's rights have been put back on the agenda (= are being discussed publicly again ) .
The subject of safety needs to be placed high on / at the top of the agenda (= must be discussed because it is very important ) .
Education was placed firmly on the political agenda in the prime minister's weekend speech .
Please contact our agent in Spain for further information .
a secret/foreign agent
a powerful cleaning agent
a raising agent for cakes
a clotting agent
literary He was the agent of their destruction .
an agglomeration of various ethnic and religious groupings
He gives a lot of money to charity , but personal aggrandizement / self-aggrandizement is his motive .
Attempts to restrict parking in the city centre have further aggravated the problem of traffic congestion .
The treatment only aggravated the condition .
Stop aggravating me , will you !
I find him really aggravating .
Aggravating factors can affect the sentence set by the court .
I 've been getting a lot of aggravation at work recently .
I do n't need any more aggravation today .
I 'd complain to the manager but it 's not worth the aggravation .
Rest the affected limb to avoid further aggravation of the condition .
They purchased an aggregate of 3,000 shares in the company .
Snowflakes are loose aggregates of ice crystals .
Arsenal lost the second game , but got through to the final on aggregate (= adding together the goals in both matches ) .
Volumes of aggregates , cement , and concrete used in the UK will rise this year .
The seven companies have an aggregate turnover of £ 5.2 million .
Man Utd won the first leg 1 - 0 and Liverpool won the second 3 - 1 , so the aggregate score was 3 - 2 to Liverpool .
Some types of dog are bred for aggression .
an act of aggression
Men tend to be more aggressive than women .
If I criticize him , he gets aggressive and starts shouting .
an aggressive election campaign
Both players won their first-round matches in aggressive style .
The more aggressive the cancer , the further and faster it spreads .
Brain cancer requires aggressive treatment such as surgery .
He felt aggrieved at not being chosen for the team .
One aggrieved customer complained that he still had n't received the book he had ordered several weeks ago .
There was some aggro between rival fans at the station .
Why are you being so uncooperative ? I do n't need this aggro .
He looked at her aghast .
Monkeys are very agile climbers .
You need to have agile fingers to do this kind of work .
For a man of 80 , he has a remarkably agile mind .
The whole world seemed agin him .
I did n't want to agitate her by telling her .
The unions continue to agitate for higher pay .
As a young man , he had agitated against the Vietnam war .
Pour the powder into the solution and agitate it until the powder has dissolved .
He arrived home in a state of agitation .
The anti-war agitation is beginning to worry the government .
It is thought that the strike was the work of undercover political agitators .
a city at night , aglow with lights
His face was all aglow with excitement .
visual agnosia
Although he was raised a Catholic , he was an agnostic for most of his adult life .
Compare
He left the house over an hour ago .
The dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago .
Long ago / A long time ago , there lived a girl called Cinderella .
We waited agog for news .
He published a study of agonistic behaviour in freshwater crayfish .
She agonized for days about whether she should take the job .
We heard an agonized cry .
She gave him an agonized look .
an agonizing death
She went through an agonizing few weeks waiting for the test results .
We are faced with an agonizing choice/decision/dilemma .
She lay there screaming in agony .
I was in an agony of suspense .
We 've both suffered agonies of guilt over what happened .
She wrote in to an agony column .
Compare
She is agoraphobic and stays inside as much as she can .
This is prime agrarian land .
This part of the country is mainly agrarian .
Ann and I never seem to agree .
I agree with you on this issue .
My father and I do n't agree about / on very much .
[ + that ] I agree that he should be invited .
[ + question word ] Experts seem unable to agree whether the drug is safe or not .
[ + speech ] " You 're absolutely right , " agreed Jake .
They agreed not to tell anyone about what had happened .
We could n't agree on what to buy .
UK We finally agreed a deal .
I suggested that we should meet , and they agreed (= said yes ) .
We have five accounts of what happened and none of them agree .
Both sides in the conflict have agreed to the terms of the peace treaty .
You look well - the mountain air must agree with you .
I do n't agree with hunting .
We spent a most agreeable evening by the river .
The talks are aimed at finding a mutually agreeable solution .
We need to find a compromise that is agreeable to both sides of the party .
If Bridget is agreeable to the proposal , we 'll start the project in June .
We have to stick to the agreed price .
" So we 'll meet at 5.30 , shall we ? " " Agreed (= yes ) . "
Are we all agreed ( on that ) ?
[ + that ] The members are agreed that the proposal should be rejected .
The whole family was in agreement with her about / on what they should do .
If the three parties can not reach agreement now , there will be a civil war .
I do n't think you 'll ever get Tony's agreement to these proposals .
[ + that ] There 's widespread agreement that the law should be changed .
The dispute was settled by an agreement that satisfied both sides .
The government has entered into / signed an international arms control agreement .
They have broken ( the terms of ) the agreement on human rights .
Finally the two sides have reached an agreement .
The world's supply of agricultural land is shrinking fast .
She 's studying agricultural science .
The country's economy is mainly agricultural (= based on farming ) .
Agriculture is still largely based on traditional methods in some countries .
The area depends on agriculture for most of its income .
70 percent of the country's population practises subsistence agriculture .
Compare
The ship is currently aground off the Brittany coast .
Ah , I see .
Why has the train stopped ? Ah , now we 're off again .
Ah , Jessica , how wonderful to see you !
Ah, what a lovely baby !
Aha , now I see what you mean !
Aha , that 's where I put my keys !
The road ahead is very busy .
Turn left at the traffic lights , and you 'll see the hospital straight ahead .
Rick walked on ahead of us .
You go on ahead of (= before ) me , and I 'll meet you there .
Apparently , the latest opinion polls put the Democrats 15 percent ahead of the Republicans .
Barcelona was ahead after ten minutes .
Sophie is way (= far ) ahead of the other children in her class .
She has a difficult time ahead of her .
He could n't bear to think of the lonely year ahead .
Drugs are too easy to get ahold of .
I 'd like to get ahold of Debbie and talk to her about this .
I grabbed ahold of his legs and held on so he could not get away .
Once the drugs get ahold of you , it just changes you completely .
a workaholic
an alcoholic
a chocoholic
Ahoy there !
Land ahoy !
Ship ahoy !
artificial insemination
He gets about with the aid of a walking stick .
She went to the aid of a man trapped in his car .
A woman in the street saw that he was in trouble and came to his aid .
teaching aids , such as books and videos
A thesaurus is a useful aid to writing .
The Vatican has agreed to donate $ 80,000 in humanitarian/emergency aid to countries affected by the war .
About a fifth of the country's income is in the form of foreign/overseas aid .
a concert in aid of famine relief
Huge projects designed to aid poorer countries can sometimes do more harm than good .
His excuse for drinking brandy is that it 's said to aid digestion .
Three auditors were accused of aiding and abetting the men charged with fraud .
a senior government aide
an aide to the prime minister
Don had full-blown AIDS for over a year before he died .
people living with AIDS
Compare
The government seems to have no understanding of what ails the country .
She had been ailing for years before she died .
the country's ailing economy
Ted asked me if I could help him fix his ailing car .
He 's visiting his ailing father .
Treat minor ailments yourself .
My main aim in life is to be a good husband and father .
Our short-term aim is to deal with our current financial difficulties , but our long-term aim is to improve the company's profitability .
The leaflet has been produced with the aim of increasing public awareness of the disease .
He fired six shots at the target , but his aim was terrible , and he missed all of them .
She raised her gun , took aim and fired .
We are aiming for (= planning to achieve ) a 50 percent share of the German market .
More examplesWe always aim to give our clients personal attention . Psychoanalysts aim to explore the innermost recesses of the mind . The Pentagon is aiming to cut US forces by over 25 percent in the next five years . We're aiming to expand our customer base . The builders are aiming to get the job done by the end of the month .
Aim ( the arrow ) a little above the target .
Aim at the yellow circle .
There are hundreds of nuclear missiles aimed at the main cities .
She aimed (= directed ) a kick at my shins .
Let 's aim for (= go in the direction of ) Coventry first , and then we 'll have a look at the map .
The talks are aiming at a compromise .
[ + -ing verb ] The government's campaign is aimed at influencing public opinion .
These advertisements are specifically aimed at young people .
She said that her life seemed aimless after her children left home .
He ai n't going .
" Can I have a cigarette ? " " I ai n't got none left . "
You 're having a laugh , aintcha ?
I went outside to get some fresh air .
You should put some air in your tyres - they look flat to me .
The air was filled with the scent of roses .
Throw your gun down and put your hands in the air .
The police fired into the air to clear the demonstrators from the streets .
More examplesThe balloon rose gently ( up ) into the air . The volcano spewed a giant cloud of ash , dust , and gases into the air . The extent of the flooding can only be fully appreciated when viewed from the air . The ball carried high into the air and landed the other side of the fence . A cloud of dust rose in the air as the car roared past .
I do n't travel much by air .
an air crash/disaster
She has an air of confidence about her .
More examplesHe had a slight air of menace which I found unsettling . He retains an almost professorial air . I just assumed he owned the place - he had a proprietary air about him . The company operates out of modern offices and expensive hotel suites to create an air of respectability . He glared at me with an air of accusation .
The radio station is on air from 6 a.m.
As soon as the war started , any broadcasts with a military theme were taken off the air .
Bach's Air on a G String
Putting a complaint in the suggestions box is one way of airing your grievances .
He 'll air his views on the war whether people want to listen or not .
My mother always airs the sheets before she makes the beds .
Leave the windows open to let the room air a bit .
The game will be aired live on CBS at 7.00 tonight .
The interview with the president will air tomorrow morning .
I wish my car had air conditioning .
UN planes have made air drops to 300 flood-hit villages .
the United States Air Force
We need some more air freshener for the bathroom .
The party was full of celebrities air - kissing each other .
There were air punches as he holed the ball .
an increase in air rage incidents
an air raid shelter/siren
Compare
Air traffic control at Heathrow have given us clearance to land in 20 minutes .
an air-conditioned office
Compare
He air - dashed to Delhi for specialist treatment for his injury .
an air - to - air missile
an air - to - ground attack
In the event of a collision , the airbag stops the driver of the car from hitting his or her chest on the steering wheel .
The airborne radioactive particles have covered a huge area of Russia .
Airborne troops were dropped by parachute behind enemy lines .
The old plane had great difficulty getting airborne (= rising into the air ) .
pictures of airbrushed models
It 's so obvious in the photo that her wrinkles have been airbrushed out (= removed from the photograph with an airbrush ) .
military aircraft
Transatlantic airfares are going up .
Compare
She 's such an airhead .
The arguments for and against the proposals have been given a good airing .
The room was damp and smelly so we opened all the windows and gave it a good airing .
an airless office
My hotel room was small , airless , and uncomfortable .
What airline did you fly with ?
Airlocks are commonly found on submarines and manned spacecraft .
If you send it ( by ) airmail , it 'll be very expensive .
She has her own private airplane .
Unless a song gets lots of airplay , it wo n't sell in the shops .
Compare
an international airport
a military airport
Gatwick Airport
an airport terminal/runway
He was always putting on airs and graces .
She 's got no reason to give herself airs and graces .
The government claimed that the plane had illegally entered its airspace .
a strong southwesterly airstream
Migrating birds make use of airstreams to assist them on their long journey south .
We landed at a tiny airstrip in the middle of the jungle .
Biscuits will stay crisp if you keep them in an airtight container .
The smaller political parties are campaigning to be allowed free airtime before general elections .
Compare
The new series will be on the airwaves at 6 p.m. every Tuesday .
The new offices are light and airy .
a light, airy fabric
" I do n't care - you choose , " he said , with an airy wave of the hand .
She 's talking about buying an old castle in Ireland . It all sounds a bit airy-fairy to me .
Would you like an aisle seat or would you prefer to be by the window ?
You 'll find the shampoo and the soap in the fourth aisle from the entrance .
We left the door ajar so that we could hear what they were saying .
James Brown , aka the "Godfather of Soul "
He stood , arms akimbo , refusing to move .
They speak a language akin to French .
medical (= connected with medicine )
approval (= the act of approving )
an al fresco lunch on the patio
Most summer evenings we eat al fresco .
She accepted the money with alacrity .
His shop , a veritable Aladdin's cave of antiques , is for sale .
If there 's any trouble , raise / sound the alarm by pulling the emergency cord .
The first two bomb alerts were false alarms , but the third was for real .
a burglar/car/fire/smoke alarm
I did n't tell her that he was late because I did n't want to cause her any alarm .
Villagers have reacted with alarm to news of a proposed new road .
I did n't want to alarm him by telling him that she was ill .
I was a bit alarmed at / by how much weight she 'd lost .
[ + to infinitive ] I was alarmed to hear that she was coming .
[ + that ] I 'm rather alarmed that we have n't heard anything .
Warning : this building is alarmed .
There has been an alarming rise in the rate of inflation .
The government has dismissed newspaper reports of 200 dead as being alarmist .
I love football but , alas , I have no talent as a player .
" Will you be able to come tomorrow ? " " Alas , no . "
Her own supporters see her as an albatross who could lose them the election .
The evening was very pleasant , albeit a little quiet .
He tried , albeit without success .
Have you heard their new album ?
a stamp/photograph album
We 've put the best wedding photos into an album .
She manages , by some extraordinary alchemy , to turn the most ordinary of ingredients into the most delicious of dishes .
Most wines contain around twelve percent alcohol .
I could smell the alcohol on his breath .
an alcohol-free lager
Could I have something non - alcoholic , like orange juice , please ?
Alcoholism cost me my job , my health , and finally my family .
We 've put some bookshelves in the alcove .
brown ale
I 'm not feeling very alert today - not enough sleep last night !
A couple of alert readers posted comments on the website pointing out the mistake .
Parents should be alert to sudden changes in children's behaviour .
a bomb alert
The army was put on (full) alert as the peace talks began to fail .
The public were warned to be on the alert for (= watching carefully for ) suspicious packages .
An anonymous letter alerted police to the possibility of a terrorist attack at the airport .
Malcolm Little , alias Malcolm X
He travels under (= using ) an alias .
He has a cast-iron (= very strong) alibi - he was in hospital the week of the murder .
After eight years in power , the government can no longer use the previous government's policy as an alibi for its own failure .
an alien culture
Synonym
When I first went to New York , it all felt very alien to me .
an alien spacecraft
When war broke out the government rounded up thousands of aliens and put them in temporary camps .
All these changes to the newspaper have alienated its traditional readers .
Disagreements can alienate teenagers from their families .
Depressed people frequently feel a sense of alienation from those around them .
This short-sighted alienation of their own supporters may lose them the election .
I had to use a bit of petrol to get the fire alight .
The rioters overturned several cars and set them alight .
He was smoking in bed and his blankets caught alight .
The sky was alight with hundreds of fireworks .
Her eyes were alight with mischief .
The suspect alighted from the train at Euston and proceeded to Heathrow .
A butterfly alighted gently on the flower .
As she glanced round the room her eyes alighted upon a small child .
I spent an hour in the bookshop before alighting on the perfect present .
When you 've aligned the notch on the gun with the target , fire !
Align the ruler and the middle of the paper and then cut it straight .
The party is under pressure to align itself more closely with industry .
The major unions are aligned with the government on this issue .
The problem is happening because the wheels are out of alignment with each other .
New alignments are being formed within the business community .
The children all look very alike .
The twins even dress alike .
My father treated us all alike .
Friends and family alike were devastated by the news of her death .
He must be 90 if he 's still alive .
Doctors kept him alive on a life-support machine .
She 's alive and well and living in New Zealand .
Relatives of the missing sailors are struggling to keep their hopes alive .
I ski for the excitement , but I 'm also always alive to the risks .
The pond was alive with frogs .
Morphine and cocaine are powerful alkaloids .
Alkanes , such as butane and methane , are very flammable .
Ethene and propene are alkenes .
All animals have to eat in order to live .
She has four children , all under the age of five .
The cast all lined up on stage to take their bow .
Have you drunk all ( of ) the milk ?
Have you drunk it all ?
All the eggs got broken .
Now the money 's all mine !
All my friends agree .
I 've been trying all day/week to contact you .
She had £ 2,000 under the bed and the thieves took it all .
I had to use all my powers of persuasion to get her to agree .
Remember all that trouble we had with the police last year ?
So long as he 's happy - that 's all that matters (= the most important thing ) .
All (= the only thing ) I need is a roof over my head and a decent meal .
The judge cleared the court of all but (= everyone except ) herself and the witness .
Why do you get so angry with me all the time (= very often ) ?
It 's very kind of you to come all the way to meet me .
All in all , I think you 've done very well .
All I 'm saying is I think the end part could have been a little shorter .
We should do our best , that 's all I 'm saying .
Her parents died when she was a baby , so I was all the family she ever had .
The cake was all eaten last night .
The downstairs rooms were painted all in greens and blues .
The baby got food all over her dress .
Do n't let her get you all upset .
She 's been all over town looking for you .
I 've been hearing all about your weekend !
We had a difficult time but it 's all over now .
The princess lived all alone / by herself in the middle of the forest .
The score at half-time was still four all .
The game was all but over by the time we arrived .
I 'd all but given up on you .
It was a ghastly business all round .
It 's been a good day all around .
She felt all the better for the drink .
I 've lost ten pounds and I feel all the fitter for it .
an all-night bar (= a bar that is open for the whole night )
an all-inclusive price
all-conquering armies
all-cotton socks (= socks that are made completely of cotton )
When cooking the sauce , do n't forget that all - important (= most or very important ) ingredient , fresh basil .
Do you believe in an all-powerful god (= one with unlimited power ) ?
Do you think he 's been cheating us all along ?
The project 's been plagued with financial problems all along the line .
I do n't want all and sundry knowing about our problems .
All at once there was a loud crashing sound .
She 's going on a trip to New York , all expenses paid .
an all expenses paid trip to New York
All eyes are on the president to see how he will respond to the challenge to his leadership .
It 's been a fantastic couple of weeks but all good things must come to an end .
One policeman drew his gun and then suddenly all hell broke loose .
When you 're a nurse , cleaning up vomit is all in a day's work .
Be patient , you 'll hear the result all in good time .
I hope all is well with Jack .
There are all manner of architectural styles in the capital .
She 's all of a doodah about the wedding arrangements .
Peter was coming round for dinner and I was all of a flutter .
It seemed to happen all of a sudden - I felt dizzy and I just collapsed .
In the last two years the book has sold all of 200 copies .
She either loves you or hates you - it 's all or nothing with her .
The government has rejected the all-or-nothing approach in favour of a compromise solution .
Soon the news was all over town .
There were dirty dishes and clothes all over the place .
You can buy T-shirts like this all over the place .
His drumming was all over the place .
I would n't say she 's rich , but she 's doing all right (= being reasonably successful ) .
Is everything all right , madam ?
" What did you think of the film ? " " It was all right . Nothing special . "
The food was all right , I suppose , but I 've had better .
This wine 's all right , is n't it ?
Her mum 's really strict , but her dad 's all right .
You can work at home ? That 's all right , is n't it ?
It 's all right for you - your mum takes care of the children whenever you want .
He has a live-in housekeeper ? It 's all right for some , is n't it ?
She was very ill for a while but she 's all right now .
Did you get home all right (= safely) last night ?
Are you managing all right in your new job ?
Are you sure you 'll be all right on your own ?
Are you all right with those cases ?
" Can I get you a drink ? " " No , I 'm all right , thanks . "
All right , I 'll lend you the money .
All right , that 's enough noise !
Tell me if you start to feel sick , all right ?
" Are you sure you wo n't come with us ? " " All right then . If you insist . "
All right , so I made a mistake (= I accept that I was wrong ) .
I 'd rather not go to Tricia's party if that 's all right with you .
Would it be all right if I came ?
[ + to infinitive ] Chris wants to know if it 'll be all right to come over to see us this evening .
She seems to think that it 's perfectly all right to break the law .
" Thank you for the flowers . " " It 's all right (= there 's no need to thank me ) . I thought they might cheer you up . "
" I 'm sorry I broke the vase . " " Oh , that 's all right (= it 's not important ) . It was n't very expensive . "
" Are you sure it was Gillian with him ? " " Oh , it was her all right . "
"All right, John?" "Not bad thanks , and you ? "
" Did you hear I hit that creep who 'd been pestering me ? " " All right ! "
Several publishers rejected her book , but that just made her all the more determined .
It rained every day of our holiday - but we had a good time all the same .
The doctor made me feel as if she had all the time in the world to listen to my problems .
If you want to bring it up with the boss , I 'll support you all the way .
I 'll take my complaint all the way to the managing director .
There I was thinking you were hard at work and you were upstairs in bed all the while !
All things being equal , I 'll be at home on Tuesday .
I think the party was great , all things considered - I mean we did n't have much time to get ready , but it still went well .
Can you untangle this thread for me ? I 'm all thumbs today .
There were 550 people at the festival all told .
Electric heating is all very well until there 's a power cut .
It 's all very well to want to get rich quickly , but it is n't usually that easy .
The radio had been stolen , but otherwise we got the car back ( all ) in one piece .
He was the perfect image of a clean-cut , all-American boy .
an all-American talent contest/business consortium
an all-American football player
The team was led by an all - American from Yale .
Money is an all-consuming passion with them .
Her work became all - consuming .
It was Johansson who scored the all-important goal shortly before half-time .
an all-in-one printer with scanner , copier , and fax
She wears a pink Lycra all - in - one for her aerobics class .
a seven-night all-inclusive package
an all-inclusive resort
I have n't been to an all-night party since my college days .
I pulled an all-nighter last night .
We made an all-out effort to get the project finished on time .
The Palm Springs police most likely have an all-points bulletin out on her right now .
an all-purpose household cleaner
Compare
She 's a fantastic all-round sportswoman .
The team plays in a new, purpose - built all-seater stadium .
an all-seater venue/ground/stand
She showed us the new all-singing, all-dancing graphics software she 'd bought for her computer .
His latest film featured an all-star cast .
an all-star baseball team
After three years of drought , the water in the lake had reached an all-time low .
Compare
She had invited relatives from the four corners of the world to her 80th birthday party .
The government is trying to allay public fears/concern about the spread of the disease .
Several of her patients have made allegations of professional misconduct about / against her .
[ + that ] Allegations that Mr Dwight was receiving money from known criminals have caused a scandal .
[ + ( that ) ] The two men allege ( that ) the police forced them to make false confessions .
[ + to infinitive ] She is alleged to have been at the centre of an international drug ring .
[ + that ] It was alleged that Johnson had struck Mr Rahim on the head .
It took 15 years for the alleged criminals (= people thought to be criminals ) to prove their innocence .
Soldiers have to swear allegiance to the Crown / the King .
In many American schools , the students pledge allegiance ( to the flag ) at the beginning of the school day .
As an Englishman who 'd lived for a long time in France , he felt a certain conflict of allegiances when the two countries played soccer .
The play can be read as allegory .
Augustine's "City of God " is an allegory of the triumph of Good over Evil .
the allegro movement
I 'm allergic to cats .
an allergic reaction
My dad 's allergic to pop music .
an allergy to wheat
a wheat allergy
The drugs did nothing to alleviate her pain/suffering .
a military alliance
NATO is sometimes called the Atlantic Alliance .
The three smaller parties have forged / formed an alliance against the government .
Some of us feel that the union is in alliance with management against us .
an allied offensive
Computer science and allied subjects are not taught here .
It takes a lot of enthusiasm , allied with / to a love of children , to make a good teacher .
Allied forces
the Allied landings in Normandy
" Round the rugged rocks the ragged rascal ran " uses alliteration .
Compare
The government is allocating £ 10 million for health education .
[ + two objects ] As project leader , you will have to allocate people jobs / allocate jobs to people .
It is not the job of the investigating committee to allocate blame for the disaster / to allocate blame to individuals .
[ + two objects ] They allotted everyone a separate desk .
They allotted a separate desk to everyone .
The ministry of culture will be allotted about 15 % less this year .
Three hours have been allotted to / for this task .
The museum is planning to increase the amount of space allotted to modern art .
The allotment of the company's shares to its employees is still to be decided .
We have used up this year's allotment of funds .
[ + to infinitive ] Do you think Dad will allow you to go to Jamie's party ?
You 're not allowed to talk during the exam .
Her proposals would allow (= make it possible for ) more people to stay in full-time education .
The loophole has allowed hundreds of drink-drivers to avoid prosecution .
The government has refused to allow foreign journalists into the area for several weeks .
Prisoners have been moved to allow the demolition of part of the prison .
Pets are n't allowed in this hotel .
[ + -ing verb ] Smoking is not allowed in this restaurant .
[ + two objects ] He did n't allow us enough time to finish the test .
Red Cross officials were allowed access to the prison for the first time a few days ago .
UK The referee decided to allow (= officially accept ) the goal .
At the weekend I allow myself (= I give myself the special pleasure of having ) a box of chocolates .
How much time do you allow yourself (= make available to yourself ) to get ready in the morning ?
You ca n't carry all those bags yourself - please , allow me .
She allowed that she might have been too suspicious .
We allowed for living expenses of £ 20 a day .
[ + -ing verb ] You should allow for the plane being delayed .
We have to allow for the possibility that we might not finish on schedule .
This rule allows of no exceptions .
The evidence allows of only one interpretation - he was murdered by his wife .
A certain level of error is allowable (= permitted to happen ) .
UK allowable expenses (= expenses on which no taxes are paid )
The perks of the job include a company pension and a generous travel allowance .
I could n't have managed at college if I had n't had an allowance from my parents .
The baggage/luggage allowance for most flights is 20 kilos .
We should make allowance for bad weather and have plenty of umbrellas available .
You should make allowances for him - he 's been quite ill recently .
" This is a poor piece of work . " " Yes , but you should make allowances for the fact that she 's only seven . "
Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc .
My pleasure in receiving the letter was somewhat alloyed by its contents .
She mentioned some trouble that she 'd had at home and I guessed she was alluding to her son .
the allure of working in television
sexual allure
I did n't find the prospect of a house with no electricity very alluring .
She was wearing a most alluring dress at Sam's dinner party .
The film is full of allusions to Hitchcock .
Her novels are packed with literary allusions .
Her music is witty , ironic , and allusive .
The US is one of Britain's staunchest allies .
During the First World War , Turkey and Germany were allies / Turkey was an ally of Germany .
See also
He is generally considered to be the prime minister's closest political ally .
He allied himself with the left of the party .
Almighty God
All of a sudden we heard an almighty crash from the kitchen .
There was an almighty row when I asked them to leave .
We must pray to the Almighty for forgiveness .
ground/toasted almonds
It was almost six o'clock when he left .
I almost wish I had n't invited him .
It 'll cost almost as much to repair it as it would to buy a new one .
Almost all the passengers on the ferry were French .
They 'll almost certainly forget to do it .
The town was almost entirely destroyed during the war .
We were bitten by mosquitoes almost every night .
The boat sank almost immediately after it had struck the rock .
Most artists find it almost impossible to make a living from art alone .
Mum almost burst a blood vessel when I told her what happened .
I almost / could have died of embarrassment .
In the past , people thought it was their religious duty to give alms to the poor .
We held our glasses aloft .
He likes being alone in the house .
She decided to climb the mountain alone .
Do you like living alone ?
At last , we 're alone together (= there are just the two of us here ) .
The Swedes are not alone in finding their language under pressure from the spread of English .
I do n't like the man and I 'm not alone in that (= other people agree ) .
She alone needs to decide what to do (= no one else can do it for her ) .
These facts alone (= even if nothing else is considered ) show that he 's not to be trusted .
He wo n't get the job through charm alone (= he will need something else ) .
The airfare alone would use up all my money , never mind the hotel bills .
Price alone is not a reliable indicator of quality .
a romantic walk along the beach/river
a row of houses along the river
Cars were parked all along the road .
Somewhere along this road there 's a garage .
We were just walking along , chatting .
Why do n't you take him along with you when you go ?
I 'll bring some food along and we can have a picnic .
California , along with Florida and Hawaii , is among the most popular US tourist destinations .
I was thinking of doing a meal along the lines of that dinner I did for Annie and Dave .
They 're campaigning for the electoral system to be reformed along the lines of (= so that it becomes similar to ) the one in Germany .
My sister works in publishing , and I ’m hoping to do something along the same lines .
I 've been in this job for 30 years , and I 've picked up a good deal of expertise along the way .
The new pill will be used alongside existing medicines .
Most of the staff refused to work alongside the new team .
The UK fought alongside France , Turkey , and Sardinia during the Crimean War .
She seemed rather aloof when in fact she was just shy .
Whatever is happening in the office , she always remains aloof .
She kept herself aloof from her husband's business .
He read her letter aloud to the rest of the family .
People are starting to wonder aloud (= question publicly ) whether the economic reforms have gone too far .
an alpha version of the program
the Roman/Cyrillic alphabet
an alphabetical list
The names are published in alphabetical order .
Is there a standard way to alphabetize abbreviations ?
Alpine ski resorts
Our window looked out on a beautiful alpine scene .
I asked him to come to the exhibition but he 'd already seen it .
The concert had already begun by the time we arrived .
I 've already told him .
As I have already mentioned , I doubt that we will be able to raise all the money we need .
Are you buying Christmas cards already ? It 's only September !
I 've only eaten one course and I 'm already full .
（ all right的非標準拼寫 ）
She 's a photographer and also writes books .
I 'm cold , and I 'm also hungry and tired .
Press Alt and F1 to move the cursor to the next field .
We 've had to alter some of our plans .
Although the cost of making phone calls is going up , the charge for connecting to the internet will not alter .
Giving up our car has radically altered our lifestyle .
I took the coat back to the shop to have it altered .
spay
Superman is Clark Kent's alter ego .
Several police officers are being questioned about the alteration of the documents .
The house needed extensive alterations when we moved in .
Some alterations to our original plans might be necessary .
She 's getting some alterations done to her dress .
The landscape has undergone considerable alteration .
According to witnesses , the altercation between the two men started inside the restaurant .
She alternated between cheerfulness and deep despair .
He alternated working in the office with long tours overseas .
a dessert with alternate layers of chocolate and cream
Private cars are banned from the city on alternate days .
David was too sick to attend , so Janet served as his alternate .
Compare
Compare
Flowers and trees are planted to produce an attractive alternation of light and shade in the garden .
The opposition parties have so far failed to set out an alternative strategy .
An alternative venue for the concert is being sought .
an alternative to coffee
There must be an alternative to people sleeping on the streets .
I 'm afraid I have no alternative but to ask you to leave (= that is what I have to do ) .
alternative energy sources
to pursue / seek an alternative lifestyle
Living the vegan alternative lifestyle that we do , my friends and I are a little overwhelmed by the commercialism of Christmas .
Alternative medicine includes treatments such as acupuncture , homeopathy , and hypnotherapy .
We could go to the Indian restaurant , or alternatively , we could try that new Italian place .
She walked home by herself , although she knew that it was dangerous .
He decided to go , although I begged him not to .
He 's rather shy , although he 's not as bad as he used to be .
She 'll be coming tonight , although I do n't know exactly when .
We are currently flying at an altitude of 15,000 metres .
Mountain climbers use oxygen when they reach higher altitudes .
She began by singing soprano , then changed to alto .
Compare
an alto saxophone/flute
Compare
That 'll be $ 52.50 altogether , please .
The government ought to abolish the tax altogether .
She wrote less and less often , and eventually she stopped altogether .
It 's all right working with him , but living with him would be a different matter altogether .
I 'm not altogether sure I want that (= I have doubts about it ) .
I think Graham will agree , but convincing Mary will be altogether more (= much more ) difficult .
He 's bad-tempered, selfish, and altogether an unpleasant man .
Compare
She 's not known for her altruism .
I doubt whether her motives for donating the money are altruistic - she 's probably looking for publicity .
an aluminium saucepan
Cover the fish with aluminium foil and cook over a low heat .
We take all our aluminium cans for recycling .
the alumni of St MacNissi's College
Several famous alumni have agreed to help raise money for the school's restoration fund .
/t/ , /z/ , and /n/ are alveolar sounds in English .
the alveolar ridge
It 's always cold in this room .
She always spells my name wrong .
I 'll always remember you .
I 've always liked him .
I always thought I 'd have children eventually .
If you miss this train you can always catch the next one .
[ + -ing verb ] disapproving You 're always complaining .
an Alzheimer's patient
The first election results are expected around 1 a.m.
Compare
You 're listening to Radio Gold , broadcasting 24 hours a day on 909 AM .
an amalgam filling
The show was a wonderful amalgam of dance , music , and drama .
Nearly every new parent feels an amalgam of joy and terror .
The electricians' union is planning to amalgamate with the technicians' union .
The different offices will be amalgamated as / into employment advice centres .
The association was formed by the amalgamation of several regional environmental organizations .
The company began as an amalgamation of small family firms .
/-i/ us
an Italian biscuit made from almonds (= a type of nut )
She has amassed a huge fortune from her novels .
Some of his colleagues envy the enormous wealth that he has amassed .
an amateur astronomer/boxer/historian
He was an amateur singer until the age of 40 , when he turned professional .
Compare
This tennis tournament is open to both amateurs and professionals .
Compare
I wo n't be giving them any more work - they 're a bunch of amateurs .
Their website looks amateurish .
[ + question word ] I was amazed by how well he looked .
You 've done all your homework in an hour ? You amaze me .
[ + that ] It amazes me that she 's got the energy for all those parties .
[ + to infinitive ] It amazes me to think that Anna is now in charge of the company .
It amazes me how you can put up with living in such a dirty house .
It never ceases to amaze me how he can talk for so long without ever saying anything interesting .
She was amazed at how calm she felt after the accident .
I was absolutely amazed when I heard he 'd been promoted .
[ + to infinitive ] Mr Graham was amazed to find 46 ancient gold coins inside the pot .
I was amazed to hear that Chris had won first prize .
We were amazed to discover that we 'd been at school together .
[ + ( that ) ] I 'm amazed ( that ) she did n't complain .
She stared in amazement .
To my amazement , he ate the whole pie .
This stain remover really works - it 's amazing !
The new theatre is going to cost an amazing (= very large) amount of money .
It 's amazing that no one else has applied for the job .
The amazing thing is that it was kept secret for so long .
What an amazing coincidence !
This wine is really amazing .
the Amazonian rainforest
The UK's ambassador in Moscow has refused to comment .
She 's a former ambassador to the United States .
Late last night , the French ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Office to discuss the crisis .
the ambassadorial car/residence
He has a collection of prehistoric insects preserved in amber .
The lights turned to amber .
Despite being a busy city , Dublin has the ambience of a country town .
We wish to remove any ambiguity concerning our demands .
There are some ambiguities in the legislation .
His reply to my question was somewhat ambiguous .
The wording of the agreement is ambiguous .
The government has been ambiguous on this issue .
They believe that all the outstanding issues should fall within the ambit of the talks .
[ + to infinitive ] His ambition is ultimately to run his own business .
He has already achieved his main ambition in life - to become wealthy .
political ambitions
She doubts whether she 'll ever be able to fulfil her ambition .
I 've always had a burning (= very great) ambition to be a film director .
After his heart attack , he abandoned his ambition to become prime minister .
She has a lot of ambition .
an ambitious young lawyer
He 's very ambitious for his children (= he wants them to be successful ) .
She has some ambitious plans for her business .
The government has announced an ambitious plan to modernize the railway network .
The original completion date was over - ambitious , so we have had to delay the opening .
I felt very ambivalent about leaving home .
He has fairly ambivalent feelings towards his father .
an ambivalent attitude to exercise
Ambiverts like to be with people , but they also like to be by themselves .
He was ambling along the beach .
She ambled down the street , stopping occasionally to look in the shop windows .
There 's nothing I enjoy more than a leisurely amble in the park .
The chocolate mousse she makes is sheer ambrosia (= tastes extremely good ) .
I called an ambulance .
We were woken in the night by the wail of ambulance sirens .
an ambulance driver
An ambulance crew was called to his home , but he was dead by the time they arrived .
An ambulance chaser contacted her the day she was injured and persuaded her to sue the city council for negligence .
an ambulatory surgery
We will be opening two new ambulatory care facilities for private patients in May.
Five soldiers died after their bus was ambushed on a country road .
He was ambushed by gunmen on his way to work .
Several passers - by were killed in the ambush .
Fear of ambush prevents the police from going to high-risk areas .
年齡相關性黃斑部病變（age-related macular degeneration的縮寫）
First AME Church
Foreign aid is badly needed to ameliorate the effects of the drought .
Although benign , ameloblastomas can be very destructive of the jaw .
" Thank goodness we did n't go . " " Amen to that ! "
She might be more amenable to the idea if you explained how much money it would save .
Do you think the new manager will prove more amenable to our proposals ?
MPs were urged to amend the law to prevent another oil tanker disaster .
Until the constitution is amended , the power to appoint ministers will remain with the president .
He insisted that the book did not need amendment .
I 've made a few last-minute amendments to the article .
An amendment to the bill was agreed without a vote .
She tried to make amends by inviting him out to dinner .
I wanted to make amends for the worry I 've caused you .
The council has some spare cash , which it proposes to spend on public amenities .
The 200-year-old jail is overcrowded , understaffed , and lacking in basic amenities .
They drive a big American car .
He said he was proud to be an American .
Pinball machines are very much in demand by collectors of Americana .
Linda Chan was born in Hong Kong but grew up in New York and quickly became Americanized .
disapproving Many European cities have been Americanized with burger bars and diners .
He seemed an amiable young man .
So amiable was the mood of the meeting that a decision was soon reached .
His manner was perfectly amicable , but I felt uncomfortable .
Few people have amicable divorces .
Eventually we reached an amicable settlement .
On the floor , amid mounds of books , were two small envelopes .
The new perfume was launched amidst a fanfare of publicity .
Synonym
I could see by the look on their faces that something was amiss .
A word of apology might not go amiss .
A sense of proportion would not go amiss in all of this .
I was worried that he might take my remark amiss .
The two groups had lived in perfect amity for many years before the recent troubles .
Synonym
We were running out of ammo .
Synonym
/ˈæm.əʊ/ us
/-oʊ/ objects that can be shot from a weapon , such as bullets or bombs
a good supply of ammunition
a shortage of ammunition
His bad behaviour provided plenty of ammunition for his opponents .
After the accident he suffered periods of amnesia .
Most political prisoners were freed under the terms of the amnesty .
People who hand in illegal weapons will not be prosecuted during the amnesty .
The government refused to declare an amnesty for people who had not paid the disputed tax .
The soldiers ran amok after one of their senior officers was killed .
The two dogs ran amok in a school playground .
I saw a few familiar faces among the crowd .
Rescue teams searched among the wreckage for survivors .
a decision that has caused a lot of anger among women
Relax , you 're amongst friends .
Talk about it among yourselves (= talk to each other about it without me ) for a while .
She has worked as an estate agent among other things (= as well as other things ) .
He divided the country among his sons .
The cost should be shared equally among the three of you .
Humans , he argues , are amoral and what guides them is not any sense of morality but an instinct for survival .
Compare
The opera centres around the amorous adventures / exploits of its handsome hero .
Amanda had rejected his amorous advances .
an amorphous mass of jelly
The value of the machinery is amortized over its estimated useful life .
They did n't deliver the right amount of sand .
Small amounts of land were used for keeping animals .
He paid regular amounts of money to a charity .
I did n't expect the bill to come to this amount (= of money ) .
The new tax caused a huge amount of public anger .
I had a certain amount of (= some) difficulty finding the house .
You would n't believe the amount of trouble (= what a lot of trouble ) I 've had with this car .
His behaviour amounted to serious professional misconduct .
He gave what amounted to an apology on behalf of his company .
/ˈæm.peər/ us
/-pɪr/ , written abbreviation A the standard unit of measurement for the strength of an electrical current
a 30-amp fuse
Floyd was banned from racing after a drug test revealed traces of amphetamine in his urine .
an amphibious landing/attack (= from the sea onto the land )
You 'll have ample opportunity to ask questions after the talk .
There 's ample evidence that the lawyer knew exactly what she was doing .
They had ample warning of the factory closure .
her ample bosom
His ample girth (= his big stomach ) was clear evidence of his passion for food .
electronic amplification
The horror lies in the violence itself , which needs no amplification .
amplified music/guitar
A funeral can amplify the feelings of regret and loss for the relatives .
The sheer amplitude of the novel invites comparisons with Tolstoy .
They had to amputate his foot to free him from the wreckage .
In these cases there is no choice but to amputate .
I 've brought an article from yesterday's paper that I thought might amuse you .
[ + obj + to infinitive ] I think it amuses him to see people make fools of themselves .
Apparently these stories are meant to amuse .
We amused ourselves by watching the passers - by .
Shall I put on a DVD to amuse the kids ?
an amused smile
She was very amused by / at your comments .
Toddlers do n't need expensive toys and games to keep them amused .
She looked at him with amusement .
I looked on in amusement as they started to argue .
Carl came last in the race , ( much ) to my amusement .
I play the piano just for my own amusement (= to entertain myself , not other people ) .
There was a range of fairground amusements , including rides , stalls , and competitions .
an amusing story/person/situation
a Canadian
a Korean
a Christian
Russian literature
Italian opera
Olives are an acquired taste .
These shoes cost me an arm and a leg .
After consulting with his assistant , the referee ordered an early bath for both players .
He was disqualified after testing positive for anabolic steroids .
For some people , marriage is an anachronism from the days when women needed to be protected .
The main symptoms of anaemia are tiredness and pallor .
Lack of iron in your diet can make you anaemic .
Both actors gave fairly anaemic performances .
Some bacteria can only live in anaerobic conditions .
Compare
Compare
The operation is performed under anaesthetic .
The procedure is carried out under local anaesthetic (= a substance that makes you unable to feel pain in part of your body ) .
I 've never had a general anaesthetic (= a substance that makes you unconscious so you do not feel pain ) .
" Neat " is an anagram of " a net " .
the anal passage/sphincter
整潔成癖的；過分注重細節的（同 anally retentive）
anal fissure surgery/treatment
This cream contains a mild analgesic to soothe stings and bites .
Do n't you think Adrian 's a bit anally retentive ? Look how obsessively orderly everything is in his garage .
Compare
Compare
He has been studying the European analogues of the British Parliament .
He drew an analogy between the brain and a vast computer .
It is sometimes easier to illustrate an abstract concept by analogy with (= by comparing it with ) something concrete .
Researchers analysed the purchases of 6,300 households .
Water samples taken from streams were analysed for contamination by chemicals .
Chemical analysis revealed a high content of copper .
I was interested in Clare's analysis of (= examination of and judgment about ) the situation .
a financial/food/political/systems analyst
精神分析師，心理分析師（見 psychoanalyst）
He has a very analytical mind .
Some students have a more analytical approach to learning .
a system for performing analytics on received data
This technology provides detailed analytics about campaign reach .
an anaphoric pronoun
Milligan's anarchic humour has always had the power to offend as well as entertain .
He was a poet , an anarchist , and a vegan .
an anarchist group/slogan/bookshop
What we are witnessing is the country's slow slide into anarchy .
The country has been in a state of anarchy since the inconclusive election .
If the pay deal is n't settled amicably there 'll be anarchy in the factories .
Credit controls are anathema to the government .
For older employees , the new system is an anathema .
All medical students are required to do an anatomical dissection of a human body .
Her drawings contain an astonishing level of anatomical detail .
an anatomically correct doll
An understanding of human anatomy is important to a dancer .
He later became professor of anatomy at Kiel .
the female anatomy
the anatomy of a leaf
On which part of her anatomy is she tattooed ?
The whole play reads like an anatomy of evil .
There were portraits of his ancestors on the walls of the room .
Compare
This wooden instrument is the ancestor of the modern metal flute .
He was proud of his Native American ancestry .
His wife was of royal ancestry .
The family has traced its ancestry back to the Norman invaders .
We dropped anchor (= lowered the anchor into the water ) and stopped .
It was time to weigh anchor (= pull up the anchor and sail away ) .
She was my anchor when things were difficult for me .
This treaty has been called the anchor (= strongest part ) of their foreign policy .
anchorwoman
We anchored ourselves to the rocks with a rope .
She will anchor the new morning news show .
The bay is well known as a safe anchorage .
UK rear seat belt anchorage points
Synonym
The late-night current affairs show has a new anchorman .
Synonym
Synonym
Decorate the top of the pizza with anchovies/strips of anchovy .
the ancient kingdoms of Mexico
People have lived in this valley since ancient times .
History , ancient and modern , has taught these people an intense distrust of their neighbours .
He 's got an ancient laptop .
the ancient Egyptians / Greeks/Romans
The ancient Britons inhabited these parts of England before the Roman invasion .
an ancillary role
Campaigning to change government policy is ancillary to the charity's direct relief work .
Ann and Jim
boys and girls
knives and forks
We were wet and tired .
We kissed and hugged each other .
Tidy up your room . And do n't forget to make your bed !
schools , colleges , and so on
She bought the whole lot - house , farm , horses , and all .
I 'd like some and all .
She likes grammar and all that .
Many pupils have extra classes in the evenings and/or at weekends .
I got dressed and had my breakfast .
Bring the flowers into a warm room and they 'll soon open .
Stand over there and you 'll be able to see it better .
I asked him to go and find my glasses .
Come and see me tomorrow .
Wait and see (= wait in order to see ) what happens .
informal Try and get (= try to get ) some tickets for tonight's performance .
She spends hours and hours (= a very long time ) on the phone .
The sound grew louder and louder (= very loud ) .
We laughed and laughed (= laughed a lot ) .
More examplesHe just got thinner and thinner . The weather seems to get worse and worse . We're having to wait longer and longer to see a doctor .
You 're a vegetarian and you eat fish ?
They sell televisions and radios and all that jazz .
And another thing , why did n't you tell me you were going out ?
K. Branagh and co. achieved great success in a very short time .
I 've been in the job longer than you and do n't you forget it !
I think I 'll just sell all the furniture and have done with it .
He 's a strange man and no mistake .
I 'm not coming , and that 's flat !
There were 20,000 people and then some at the demonstration .
There were a couple of bags full of old records , magazines , and what have you .
Karen and Laura and all the rest are coming to dinner tonight .
I want you both in bed by nine o'clock , no messing !
If the game is cancelled , you will get a refund and/or new tickets .
Andante in A minor
the andante movement
The second movement of the symphony should be played andante .
With her lean frame and cropped hair , Lennox had a fashionably androgynous look .
He told one or two amusing anecdotes about his years as a policeman .
The film tells anew the story of his rise to fame and power .
According to the Bible , an angel told Mary that she would have God's son , Jesus .
Be an angel and help me with this .
What 's the matter , angel ?
Come along , my angels , time for bed .
Wealthy individual investors , known as angels , differ from lenders in that they want a stake in your business .
an angelic voice/face/smile
strips of angelica
I think he feels a lot of anger towards his father , who treated him very badly as a child .
There is a danger that anger at the new law may turn into anti-government feeling .
The people showed no surprise or anger at their treatment .
He found it hard to contain (= control ) his anger .
The remark angered him .
It always angers me to see so much waste .
The drug has been shown to relieve angina .
If you experience angina while exercising , stop .
Lymph angiomas are benign tumours of the lymphatic vessels .
Surgeons found an angioma in his brain .
The primary treatment for angiosarcoma is surgery .
The interior angles of a square are right angles or angles of 90 degrees .
The picture was hanging at an angle .
He wore his hat at a jaunty angle .
The tower is visible from every angle / all angles .
I realized I was looking at it from the wrong angle .
Try looking at the problem from another angle / from my angle .
The press was looking for a new/fresh angle on the situation .
The stage had been steeply angled (= was sloping very noticeably ) .
The magazine is angled at the 20 to 35-year-old women's market .
He 's clearly angling for a job / an invitation .
See also
Desmond Tutu became the most famous Anglican archbishop in South Africa .
Outside England , the Anglican Church is often referred to as the Episcopal or Episcopalian Church .
an Anglican priest
He 's an Anglican .
" Le weekend " is an Anglicism used by the French .
She married Norwegian immigrant Niels Larsen , who later anglicized his name .
The students are Anglos , Latinos , and Native Americans .
an Anglophile (= someone who loves England )
an Anglo-American agreement
See also
an angora sweater
He 's really angry at / with me for upsetting Sophie .
I do n't understand what he 's angry about .
[ + that ] They feel angry that their complaints were ignored .
I got really angry with her .
It made me really angry .
On her leg was an angry sore .
All my children went through a period of late-adolescent angst .
an angsty teenage boy
His anguish at the outcome of the court case was very clear .
In her anguish she forgot to leave a message .
Her features were too angular , her face a little too long for beauty .
The levator anguli oris muscles raise the corners of the mouth when we smile .
wild/domestic animals
Both children are real animal lovers .
Surveys show that animal welfare has recently become a major concern for many schoolchildren .
Humans , insects , reptiles , birds , and mammals are all animals .
He 's a real animal when he 's had too much to drink .
At heart she is a political animal .
She is that rare animal (= she is very unusual ) , a brilliant scientist who can communicate her ideas to ordinary people .
Feminism in France and England are rather different animals (= are different ) .
The island was devoid of all animal life (= there were no animals on the island ) .
As an actor , he has a sort of animal magnetism .
She knew that Dave was n't the right man for her but she could n't deny the animal attraction between them .
Chimpanzees are one of the closest human relatives in the animal kingdom .
She campaigns for animal rights .
Animal rights activists protested outside the laboratory .
A sparkle in his eyes animated his face whenever he smiled .
There was an extremely animated discussion on the subject .
They must have been having an interesting conversation - they both looked very animated .
She spoke with great animation about her latest discoveries .
Encyclopedias on CD-ROM include sound , illustrations , and simple animations .
Thanks to computer animation , it is now possible to make cartoons much more quickly than in the past .
Walt Disney is the most famous animator of feature-length films .
Until recently , anime had little more than a cult following outside Japan .
an anime that blurs the line between man and machine
Of course we 're competitive , but there 's no personal animosity between us .
In spite of his injuries , he bears no animosity towards his attackers .
The European Community helped France and Germany forget the old animosities between them .
He harbours no animus toward his rival .
I fell over and sprained / twisted my ankle .
The signing of the Treaty of Rome was the greatest event in the annals of European integration .
Quite whether he will go down in the annals of American history (= be considered ) as a great leader remains to be seen .
Delicate and valuable books are kept in an air-conditioned annexe to the main library .
a city annihilated by an atomic bomb
He was annihilated in the finals of the competition .
We always celebrate our wedding anniversary with dinner in an expensive restaurant .
Tomorrow is the 30th anniversary of the revolution .
He was a champion and he refused to be beaten by Anno Domini .
Annotated editions of Shakespeare's plays help readers to understand old words .
They announced the death of their mother in the local paper .
She announced the winner of the competition to an excited audience .
[ + that ] The prime minister has announced that public spending will be increased next year .
The first few leaves in the gutter announced the beginning of autumn .
The president made an unexpected announcement this morning .
The announcement of the changes has been delayed .
a radio/TV announcer
Tina really annoyed me in the meeting this morning .
I 'm sorry - is my cough annoying you ?
[ + that ] It annoys me that she just expects us to help .
It really annoys me when people expect me to tip as well as pay a service charge in a restaurant .
He jumped out from behind a wall and scared the hell out of her .
I can understand your annoyance - I 'd be furious if she ever treated me like that .
( Much ) to our annoyance , (= we were very annoyed that ) we could n't see anything from the back row of the theatre .
One of the greatest annoyances was being bitten by mosquitoes every night .
I was so annoyed with him for turning up late .
He was annoyed at the way she tried to take over the whole meeting .
My parents were rather annoyed ( that ) I had n't told them about the accident .
She was annoyed to discover that her husband had taken her car keys .
It 's really annoying when a train is late and there 's no explanation .
He 's got a really annoying laugh .
an annual event / visit / holiday
Companies publish annual reports to inform the public about the previous year's activities .
Compare
Exports fell at an annualized rate of 12.3 percent , while imports rose at a 7.5 percent pace .
Your starting salary is £ 23,000 per annum and will be reviewed annually .
an annuity policy
She receives a small annuity .
His second marriage was annulled because he never divorced his first wife .
1969 was the annus mirabilis in which man first landed on the moon .
Compare
This is daytime television at its most anodyne .
Somehow this avoids being just another silly pop song with anodyne lyrics about love and happiness .
[ + obj + noun ] In 751 Pepin was anointed king .
[ + as + noun ] It remains to be seen whom the chairman will anoint as his successor .
Statistical anomalies can make it difficult to compare economic data from one year to the next .
The anomaly of the social security system is that you sometimes have more money without a job .
See you anon .
The police have reassured witnesses that they will be guaranteed anonymity .
We anonymize the data so researchers can not identify any individual subjects .
anonymized medical records
The money was donated by an anonymous benefactor .
Police said an anonymous caller warned that a bomb was about to go off .
An attempt to implant an embryo using an egg from an anonymous woman donor was unsuccessful .
He received an anonymous letter threatening to disclose details of his affair if he did n't pay the money .
For reasons of personal safety , the informant wishes to remain anonymous .
He has a rather anonymous face .
There are enough facts and figures in this book to keep even the most obsessive anorak fascinated for hours .
Reports of anorexia and other eating disorders are on the increase .
Compare
She looks anorexic to me .
Anorexics tend to be obsessional and perfectionist .
I 'm going to have another piece of cake .
" Would you get me a bar of chocolate from the kitchen ? " "Another one ? "
We can fit another person in my car .
Danny 's had yet another car accident .
For another £ 30 (= for £ 30 more ) you can buy the model with a touchscreen .
Just think , in another three months (= three months from now ) it 'll be summer again .
I 'm not surprised he 's feeling ill - he was eating one ice cream after another !
Do you want to exchange this toaster for another (one ) or do you want your money back ?
They gave one another presents when they met at the airport .
We 'll get out of this mess one way or another .
He missed a medal in the 100 metres , but will get a second bite of the cherry in the 400 metres .
Each successive revelation of incompetence is another nail in the chairman's coffin .
That report drove the final nail in the company's coffin .
The minister promised to give a written answer to the MP's detailed question .
We 've emailed him asking him if he 's free on that date but we have n't had an answer yet .
I 've just called him but there was no answer .
I did n't realize we had to write each answer on a new sheet of paper .
I got eight correct answers and two wrong ones in last week's exam .
In answer to your letter of 30 May , I am writing to accept your offer of £ 3,575 in compensation .
It 's a difficult situation and I do n't know what the answer is .
There 's no easy answer to the problem .
I ca n't answer ( you ) without more detailed information .
You have n't answered my question .
I texted asking whether he 'd be coming to the party but he has n't answered yet .
[ + speech ] " I 'd love to have dinner with you , but I wo n't be able to get there before nine o'clock , " she answered .
[ + that ] She answered that she would n't be able to come before nine o'clock .
formal Does anyone here answer to the name of (= is anyone here called ) Wallis ?
Someone 's at the door - would you answer it , please ?
I phoned last night but nobody answered .
More examplesI went downstairs to answer the phone . Candidates must answer two questions from each paper . Students are advised to answer all questions as fully as possible . When no one answered the door , she peered through the window to see if anyone was there . She spent the morning reading and answering her mail .
He showed me some software that answered my requirements exactly .
I 've got some furniture in the attic that I think might answer your needs .
A woman who answers to the suspect's description was seen in the area on the night of the crime .
Do n't you dare answer me back , young lady !
The company criticized in the documentary was given the opportunity to answer back .
I can certainly answer for her professionalism , and whole - heartedly recommend her to any employer .
I expect parents to answer for their children's behaviour .
" Why do you think there 's so much violence nowadays ? " " Well , violence on television has a lot to answer for (= is the cause of much of it ) . "
The great thing about working for yourself is that you do n't have to answer to anyone .
Soldiers who obey orders to commit atrocities should be answerable for their crimes .
Any European central bank should be directly answerable to the European Parliament .
She was n't in so I left a message on her answering machine .
I called several times last week , but I kept getting his answering machine .
She was n't in so I left a message on her answerphone .
I called several times last week , but I kept getting his answerphone .
assistant
participant
disinfectant
an expectant look
a defiant child
There 's a history of antagonism between the two teams .
the antagonism towards neighbouring states
the historic antagonisms between the countries of western Europe
The antagonists in this dispute are quite unwilling to compromise .
He sued several of his antagonists for libel . Compare
He 's extremely antagonistic towards all critics .
It 's a very delicate situation and I 've no wish to antagonize him .
The protection of the Antarctic from commercial exploitation is an important goal of environmentalists .
the Antarctic Ocean/Circle/Zone
an Antarctic explorer/expedition
a $30 ante
antedate
antenatal
anteroom
Compare
At least 200 people have been persuaded to ante up big money for the charity event .
Many homes and churches of the antebellum South can still be visited today .
the antebrachial vein
Charles Babbage's mechanical calculating engines were the antecedents of the modern computer .
Many people feel a great curiosity to find out about their antecedents .
When the college was established in 1546 , it inherited a hall from each of three antecedent institutions .
My mother has some hopelessly antediluvian ideas about the role of women .
a herd of antelope
the antenatal clinic
Compare
/-iː/ us
either of a pair of long, thin organs that are found on the heads of insects and crustaceans (= animals with hard outer shells ) and are used to feel with
Her finely-tuned political antennae helped her to sense problems that less experienced politicians might not detect .
X is the antepenultimate letter of the alphabet .
Compare
Specimens for examination were taken from the anterior side of the left ventricle from each heart .
The ministers waited for their meeting in the Cabinet anteroom .
The national anthems of the teams are played at the beginning of international football matches .
John Lennon's "Imagine " has become the anthem of peace-lovers all over the world .
an anthology of modern quotations/American verse
This Bob Dylan anthology includes some rare recordings of his best songs .
anthropomorphism
Gorillas , chimpanzees , and gibbons are all anthropoid apes , having long arms , no tails , and highly developed brains .
The books "Alice in Wonderland " , "Peter Rabbit " , and "Winnie-the-Pooh " are classic examples of anthropomorphism .
We 've received a lot of anti letters about that newspaper article .
Just because I wo n't join you , it does n't mean that I 'm anti you .
So what do you think about smoking in public places - are you a pro or an anti (= do you support or oppose it ) ?
Compare
an anti-aircraft missile/gun/weapon
the anti-choice lobby
Craig does n't have a car as a part of his anti-consumerist stance .
The Foreign Secretary assured anti-federalist MPs that he would not agree to anything that limited British sovereignty .
Many voters are staunch anti-federalists .
Aspirin is an anti - inflammatory .
the anti-life lobby
the anti-nuclear lobby/movement
Some environmentalists are vehemently anti - nuclear .
anti-Semitic propaganda
anti-Semitic remarks
Nazi anti-Semitism forced him to emigrate to the US
Several governments have adopted tough new anti-terrorist legislation in the wake of the attacks .
an anti-virus company/product/package
an anti-war demonstration
an antibacterial facial wash
I 'm taking antibiotics for a throat infection .
a one-month course of antibiotics
Some types of antibiotic are used to promote growth in farm animals .
He 's on antibiotics for an ear infection .
Antibodies found in breast milk protect newborn babies against infection .
We do n't anticipate any trouble .
We had one or two difficulties along the way that we did n't anticipate .
Are you anticipating a lot of people at the party tonight ?
[ + -ing verb ] They anticipate having several applicants for the job .
[ + that ] They anticipate that they will have several applicants for the job
[ + question word ] At this stage we ca n't really anticipate what will happen .
The anticipated inflation figure is lower than last month 's .
It 's always best to anticipate a problem before it arises .
The army anticipated (= took action in preparation for ) the explosion by evacuating the town .
As with most pleasures , it 's not so much the experience itself as the anticipation that is enjoyable .
The postponement of the film's sequel has held cinemagoers in eager anticipation for several months .
She 's even decorated the spare room in anticipation of your visit .
an anticlerical law/constitution
When you really look forward to something it 's often an anticlimax when it actually happens .
Coming home after a trip somewhere is always a bit of an anticlimax .
Even when you win a match there 's often a sense of anticlimax - you always feel you could have played better .
Compare
" How do I get the top off this bottle ? " " Push it down and twist it anticlockwise . "
But the rock star , whose stage antics used to include smashing guitars , is older and wiser now .
The crowds were once again entertained by the number-one tennis player's antics on and off the court .
Anticyclones cause cloudless blue skies and high temperatures in summer .
She 's been on antidepressants ever since her husband died .
Sales of nerve gas antidotes increased dramatically before the war .
Regular exercise is the best antidote to tiredness and depression .
He plays the classic antihero who drops out of society .
Antihistamine is often used to treat hay fever and insect bites .
Despite the deep antipathies between them , the two sides have managed to negotiate an agreement .
Declarations of racial antipathy against ethnic minorities will not be tolerated .
He is a private man with a deep antipathyto / towards the press .
an antiperspirant deodorant
an antiquarian bookshop/bookseller
It will take many years to modernize these antiquated industries .
Compared with modern satellite dishes , ordinary TV aerials look positively antiquated .
You ca n't give away Granny's old bookcase - it 's a valuable antique .
My mother collects antiques .
an antique dealer
Cannabis has been used for medicinal purposes since antiquity .
Before creating this sculpture , she studied all the masterpieces of classical antiquity .
Under Greek law , all antiquities that are discovered in Greece belong to the government .
Antiseptic is used to sterilize the skin before giving an injection .
Many of the ingredients for antiseptics come from the rainforests .
In the 1870s and 1880s , doctors began to follow the principles of antiseptic surgery .
There 's an antiseptic feeling to the new town centre , with its covered shopping mall .
Increasingly , smoking is regarded as an antisocial habit .
I hope they wo n't think I 'm antisocial if I do n't join them in the bar .
People with antisocial personality disorder often have no concern for their own safety and that of others .
She is slim and shy - the very antithesis of her sister .
He is the exact antithesis of what I find attractive in men .
Thanks to the collapse of communism the political antithesis between Left and Right is less important .
an antiviral agent/drug
a pair of antlers
Compare
It was a long drive and the children started to get antsy .
I always get antsy about meeting my husband's boss .
Children normally feel a lot of anxiety about their first day at school .
That explains his anxiety over his health .
Her son is a source of considerable anxiety .
job anxieties
Peter 's leaving at the end of this week - hence his anxiety to get his work finished .
He has helped patients suffering from anxiety , depression , and eating disorders .
an anxiety disorder/attack
Panic attacks , irrational fears , and compulsive behaviour are examples of anxiety disorders .
My mother always gets a bit anxious if we do n't arrive when we say we will .
I saw my sister's anxious face at the window .
The drought has made farmers anxious about the harvest .
Developing countries that are anxious for hard currency can rarely afford to protect the environment .
[ + to infinitive ] I 'm anxious to get home to open my presents .
[ + that ] I 'm anxious that we get there on time because I do n't think there 'll be many seats left .
Is there any of that lemon cake left ?
There was hardly any food left by the time we got there .
" Is there some butter I could use ? " " No , there 's some margarine but there is n't any butter . "
" Is there any more soup ? " " No , I 'm afraid there is n't any left . "
I have n't seen any of his movies .
I do n't expect we 'll have any more trouble from him .
I go to church for weddings but not for any other reason .
Are you sure there is n't any way of solving this problem ?
Any food would be better than nothing at all .
informal On Sundays I just wear any old thing (= anything ) that I happen to find lying around .
Any of you should be able to answer this question .
Any idiot with a basic knowledge of French should be able to book a hotel room in Paris .
Any advice (= whatever advice ) that you can give me would be greatly appreciated .
Any minute/day/time now (= very soon ) there 's going to be a massive quarrel between those two .
There were a lot of computers at the exhibition , any (one ) of which would have suited me perfectly .
Ca n't you run any faster ?
Those trousers do n't look any different from the others .
Are you feeling any better after your illness ?
Houses in this area used to be a real bargain , but they 're not cheap any more (= now ) .
This radio is n't any good (= it 's useless ) - I 'll have to buy another .
I used to walk to work every day , but not any longer (= not now ) .
US informal I tried talking him out of it , but that did n't help any - he still left home .
We had any amount of people applying for the job .
I do n't do yoga any more .
The Cook's Shop stocks any number of different kinds of pasta .
He should n't have hit her , any way you slice it .
He looked a complete mess - dressed anyhow with his hair sticking up .
I do n't do yoga anymore .
I have n't spoken to anyone all day .
I have n't told anyone .
Was there anyone you knew at the meeting ?
Has anyone seen my glasses anywhere ?
Anyone can go - you do n't have to be invited .
Anyone could dress well with all that money .
In those days anyone who was anyone dined in this exclusive little restaurant .
Oh just put it anyplace - it does n't matter where .
Is there anything I can do to help ?
Was there anything else you wanted to say or is that it ?
Do you have anything less expensive ?
Let me know if anything happens , wo n't you ?
I did n't know anything about computers till I started this job .
I was looking for a birthday present for my mother but I did n't find anything suitable .
Did you notice anything strange about him ?
Spending Christmas with him and his brother - I ca n't imagine anything worse !
If he eats anything with wheat in it he 's very sick .
" What did you do over the weekend ? " " I do n't think we did anything much . "
He said I could order anything on the menu .
She 's meant to be really nice but she was anything but nice when I met her .
The pictures on cereal boxes do n’t look anything like the actual stuff you eat .
Well , if your brother can find a woman who 's willing to marry him , then I suppose anything 's possible .
Call round to see me anytime .
We do n't expect the economic situation to change anytime soon .
Of course I do n't mind taking you home - I 'm going that way anyway .
" I thought you said everyone had left . " " Well , some of them have anyway . "
Her parents were opposed to her giving up her course , but she did it anyway .
Anyway , as I said , I 'll be away next week .
Anyway , in the end I did n't wear your jacket .
What was he doing with so much of the company's money in his personal account anyway ?
I do n't have time to go , and anyway it 's too expensive .
You wo n't find a better plumber anywhere in England .
Go anywhere in the world and you 'll find some sort of hamburger restaurant .
I was wondering if there was anywhere I could go to get this repaired .
There are quite a few words that they use in that part of the country that you do n't hear anywhere else .
They live in some tiny little village miles from anywhere (= a very long way from any towns ) .
I ca n't find my keys anywhere .
Is there anywhere in particular you wanted to go to eat tonight ?
Did you go anywhere interesting this summer ?
Is there anywhere to eat around here ?
He charges anywhere from $ 20 to $ 50 for a haircut .
As a teacher you could expect to be paid anywhere (= any amount ) between £ 25 and £ 50 per hour .
Are we anywhere near finishing yet or is there still some way to go ?
Less than half the people with ruptured aortic aneurysms survive .
With aortic coarctation , pulses in the arms are stronger than those in the legs .
He had been suffering from aortic stenosis and died of heart failure in his sleep .
Untreated aortic valve disease can lead to heart failure .
Students' decisions to either take or avoid AP courses have fundamental effects on their college attendance .
The project is coming on apace (= advancing quickly ) .
Stand with your feet wide apart .
How far apart should the speakers be ?
We were asked to stand in two lines three metres apart .
The two lines of children moved slowly apart .
The garage , large enough for two cars , is set apart from (= not joined to ) the house .
I forget the exact age difference between Mark and his brother - they 're two or three years apart .
My jacket is so old it 's falling apart .
I took the motor apart (= separated it into pieces ) to see how it worked .
He works until nine o'clock every evening , and that 's quite apart from the work he does over the weekend .
Apart from the salary/Salary apart , it 's not a bad job .
When you 're apart you rely so heavily on the phone .
the long - awaited dismantling (= end ) of apartheid
I 'll give you the keys to my apartment .
They have six luxury apartments for sale .
a holiday apartment
The Royal Apartments are open to the public .
Young people today are so apathetic about politics .
Do n't be so apathetic - how are you going to get a job if you do n't even start looking ?
widespread apathy among students
voter apathy
Chimpanzees and gorillas are both apes .
He called the new building unoriginal and said that it merely aped the classical traditions .
Would you like an aperitif before dinner ?
The places of Copa Libertadores are allocated to the champions of Apertura and Clausura of the previous season .
the apex of a triangle/pyramid
He reached the apex of his career during that period .
A chest x-ray showed an abnormality in the left lung apex .
an Apex fare
On 6 July this year , we will be at aphelion .
Oscar Wilde was famous for such aphorisms as "Experience is the name everyone gives to their mistakes " .
Are oysters really an aphrodisiac ?
They say that power is an aphrodisiac .
the aphrodisiac properties of champagne
In good condition , dolls from this period sell for £ 500 apiece .
If that 's not enough , there are shows , movies , and amusements aplenty .
Rosalind conducted the meeting with characteristic aplomb / with her usual aplomb .
sleep apnoea
The book offers a vision of the future in which there is a great nuclear apocalypse .
an apocryphal story
It 's a good story but I dare say it 's apocryphal .
At their apogee , the novels of Spillane claimed worldwide sales of over $ 180 million .
The organization insists that it is apolitical and does not identify with any one particular party .
She was so apologetic about forgetting my birthday it was almost embarrassing .
I hope he was suitably apologetic for breaking your glasses .
communism and its apologists
There are few apologists for the old system .
I must apologize to Isobel for my lateness .
Trains may be subject to delay - we apologize for any inconvenience caused .
She apologized profusely for having to leave at 3.30 p.m.
I have an apology to make to you - I 'm afraid I opened your letter by mistake .
He 's demanding a full apology from the newspaper for making untrue allegations about his personal life .
" Was he at all sorry for what he 'd done ? " " Oh he was full of apologies (= extremely sorry ) . "
She complained to the company and they sent her a written apology .
I owe you an apology - I 'm afraid I forgot to send that report .
a letter of apology
The vice chair has sent his apologies - he 's abroad at present .
Apologies were received from Phil Baker and Mark Johnson .
MRI has been used to determine the thickness of the aponeurosis .
He was apoplectic with rage/fury .
In a fit of apoplexy , he thumped the table with both hands .
In those days apostasy was punishable by death .
an apostle of world peace/liberty
See also
" It 's " with an apostrophe means " it is " or " it has " .
Most people agree that her acting career achieved its apotheosis in this movie .
the apotheosis of the Emperor Trajan
You can run an app on your PC that will find the files and burn them to a CD .
There are apps for everything , from learning a language to booking movie tickets .
I was appalled at / by the lack of staff in the hospital .
The state of the kitchen appalled her .
The drive home was appalling .
Prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions .
a piece of apparatus
The divers checked their breathing apparatus .
The whole apparatus of communism was already falling apart .
sports apparel
Her unhappiness was apparent to everyone .
[ + that ] It was becoming increasingly apparent that he could no longer take care of himself .
I was on the metro this morning when , for no apparent reason , the man opposite me suddenly screamed .
There are one or two apparent discrepancies between the two reports .
She has this apparent innocence which , I suspect , she uses to her advantage .
Apparently it 's going to rain today .
Apparently he 's had enough of England and is going back to Australia .
I thought they were married but apparently not (= they are not married ) .
An 80-year-old woman was badly hurt in what the police describe as an apparently motiveless attack (= an attack for no apparent reason ) .
They 're launching (= starting ) an appeal to raise money for famine victims .
[ + to infinitive ] The police have issued an appeal to the public to stay away from the area over the weekend .
The case went to the court of appeal / the appeal court .
He won his appeal and the sentence was halved .
She has lodged (= made ) an appeal against the severity of the fine .
sex appeal
Spielberg's movies have a wide appeal .
This used to be a marvellous hotel but it has lost its appeal in recent years .
They 're appealing for clothes and blankets to send to the devastated region .
The police are appealing to the public for any information about the missing girl .
I tried to appeal to (= ask for support based on ) his sense of loyalty , stressing how good the company had been to him .
[ + to infinitive ] Church leaders have appealed to the government to halt the war .
The teenager has been given leave (= allowed ) by the High Court to appeal against her two-year sentence .
They 're appealing to the court to reduce the sentence to a fine .
The parents appealed against the school's decision not to admit the child .
The players appealed to the referee for a free kick .
I think what appeals to me about his painting is his use of colour .
UK I have n't been skiing - it 's never really appealed .
The idea of not having to get up early every morning is rather appealing ( to me ) .
He had a nice smile and an appealing personality .
Opposite
a little dog with appealing big brown eyes
He suddenly appeared in the doorway .
We 'd been in the house a month when dark stains started appearing on the wall .
His name appears in the film credits for lighting .
Both women will be appearing before magistrates later this week .
You 've got to appear ( to be ) calm in an interview even if you 're terrified underneath .
To people who do n't know him he probably appears ( to be ) rather unfriendly .
Things are n't always what they appear to be .
[ + to infinitive ] She appears to actually like the man , which I find incredible .
There appears to be some mistake .
[ + ( that ) ] It appears ( that ) she left the party alone .
It appears to me ( that ) (= I think that ) we need to make some changes .
formal It would appear ( that ) (= it seems that ) nobody on board the aircraft actually had a licence to fly it .
[ + adv/prep ] It appears as if / as though I was wrong .
Everything was not as it appeared - secret deals had been done .
I know how it must appear , but it 's not really as bad as it looks .
" Has he left ? " " It appears not / so . "
[ after so ] " I think we 're late . " " So it appears . "
She will be appearing in the latest adaptation of "Bleak House " .
She appears briefly in the new Bond film .
More examplesMost of the bands that appear on the show just mime to a recording of their songs . She got eight million dollars for appearing in that movie . They're appearing twice nightly at the Playhouse Theatre . She loves appearing on television and is no shrinking violet when it comes to expressing her views . She was appearing in concert at Carnegie Hall .
I 've noticed that smaller cars are starting to appear (= be produced or sold ) again .
The film , currently showing in the States , will be appearing on our screens (= we will be able to see it ) later this year .
If she has n't appeared by ten o'clock I 'm going without her .
Ms Hawley was appearing for the defence .
It was his first appearance on television/television appearance as president .
She will be making a public appearance , signing copies of her latest novel .
This was the defendant's third court appearance for the same offence .
He made his first stage/TV appearance at the age of six .
I did n't really want to go to the party , but I thought I 'd better put in an appearance .
a middle-aged man of smart appearance
You can alter / change the whole appearance of a room just by lighting it in a certain way .
There was nothing unusual about / in her physical appearance .
The large car outside the house gave the appearance of wealth (= suggested wealthy people lived there ) .
Appearances can be deceptive .
He was a far more complicated man than outward appearances suggested .
To all appearances their marriage is fine , but I think she gives him a bad time in private .
She claimed that the government had only changed the law in order to appease their critics .
The mistrial ruling was upheld in 2013 by a state appellate court .
The author appends a short footnote to the text explaining the point .
The committee is a mere appendage of the council and has no power of its own .
The organism has small leaf-like appendages .
He had a tattoo on every visible appendage .
an appendicular joint/muscle
She had her appendix out (= medically removed ) last summer .
/-dɪ.siːz/ us
a separate part at the end of a book or magazine that gives extra information
There 's an appendix at the end of the book with a list of dates .
She enjoyed the privileges appertaining to the office of chairman .
All that walking has given me an appetite .
I wo n't have any chocolate , thanks . It will spoil (= reduce ) my appetite .
I have n't got much of an appetite (= I am not hungry ) .
The children all have healthy/good appetites (= they eat a lot ) .
Both viruses cause fever and loss of appetite .
her appetite for adventure
his insatiable sexual appetite
I 've read an excerpt of the book on the Web and it 's whetted my appetite (= increased my interest in it ) .
At 6.30 everyone gathered for drinks and appetizers in the lounge .
You should have heard the audience applaud - the noise was fantastic .
She was applauded for a full five minutes after her speech .
We applaud the family's decision to remain silent over the issue .
His speech met with (= received) loud applause .
So let 's have a round of applause , please , for (= please applaud ) a very talented young lady who is going to sing for us .
to peel an apple
an apple tree
The user confirms their order and downloads an applet which asks them for their personal and payment details .
electric/domestic/household appliances
the general applicability of these basic principles
This part of the law is only applicable to companies employing more than five people .
The new qualifications are applicable to all European countries .
How many applicants did you have for the job ?
a letter of application
Free information will be sent out on application to (= if you ask ) the central office .
I 've sent off applications for four different jobs .
Have you filled in the application form for your passport yet ?
[ + to infinitive ] Argentina has submitted an application to host the World Cup .
spreadsheet applications
The design has many applications .
the application of this research in the treatment of cancer
Joshua clearly has ability in this subject but lacks application .
Leave the paint to dry between applications .
Regular application of the cream should reduce swelling within 24 hours .
The new laws have (a) particular application to the self - employed .
Please use the sponge applicator provided .
pure and applied mathematics/science
By the time I saw the job advertised it was already too late to apply .
I 've applied for a new job with the local newspaper .
Please apply in writing to the address below .
We 've applied to a charitable organization for a grant for the project .
[ + to infinitive ] Mandy applied to join the police .
That part of the form is for UK citizens - it does n't apply to you .
Those were old regulations - they do n't apply any more .
He wants a job in which he can apply his foreign languages .
The court heard how the driver had failed to apply his brakes in time .
If you apply pressure to a cut it 's meant to stop the bleeding .
More examplesIf it continues to bleed , you may have to apply a tourniquet to the limb . If he still refuses we could always apply a little pressure , as it were . It 's important to apply research in a practical way and not leave it on the shelf . It is intended that these guidelines should be applied flexibly and pragmatically . The taxi driver suddenly applied his brakes .
Apply the cream liberally to exposed areas every three hours and after swimming .
The paint should be applied thinly and evenly .
You can solve any problem if you apply yourself .
We 've appointed three new teachers this year .
He 's just been appointed ( as ) director of the publishing division .
[ + to infinitive ] A commission has just been appointed to investigate fraud claims .
A date has been appointed for the election .
I 'd like to introduce our newly appointed members of staff .
See also
Ten minutes before the appointed time , he sat nervously outside her office .
It says in the ad that the bathroom is spacious and well appointed .
See also
a government appointee
The new appointee will be working closely with both departments .
I 'd like to make an appointment with Dr Evans , please .
She had to cancel her dental appointment .
[ + to infinitive ] I 've got an appointment to see Ms Edwards at two o'clock .
I 've got a two o'clock appointment with Ms Edwards .
If he did n't have a secretary to remind him , he would n't keep (= remember to be present at ) any of his appointments .
That 's the second appointment he 's missed .
House for sale , two bedrooms . Viewing by appointment only .
his appointment as senior lecturer
We would like to announce the appointment of Julia Lewis as head of sales .
Our department expects to make five new appointments (= appoint five new people ) this year alone .
Carter's Ltd , confectioners by appointment to the Queen
When we know how much is profit , then we can apportion the money among / between us .
The investigation into the air crash would inevitably apportion blame to certain members of the crew .
an apposite phrase/quotation/remark
The film starts in a graveyard , an apposite image for the decaying society which is the theme of the film .
In the expression " my brother Joe " , " my brother " and " Joe " are in apposition .
The newspaper gave an editorial appraisal of the government's achievements of the past year .
Many companies operate regular job appraisals , often on an annual basis .
At the end of each teaching practice , trainee teachers are asked to appraise their own performance .
In cooperation with other professionals , social workers will appraise the individual's needs .
He coolly appraised the situation , deciding which person would be most likely to succeed .
There has been an appreciable drop in the number of unemployed since the new government came to power .
There 's no point buying him expensive wines - he does n't appreciate them .
We appreciate the need for immediate action .
[ + that ] I appreciate that it 's a difficult decision for you to make .
[ + question word ] I do n't think you appreciate how much time I spent preparing this meal .
We really appreciate all the help you gave us last weekend .
[ + -ing verb ] I appreciate your making the effort to come .
I would appreciate it if you could let me know (= please let me know ) in advance whether or not you will be coming .
The value of our house has appreciated by 50 percent in the last two years .
Our house has appreciated ( in value ) by 50 percent in the last two years .
Opposite
Max has no appreciation of the finer things in life .
The crowd cheered in appreciation .
Children rarely show any appreciation of / for what their parents do for them .
These flowers are a token of my appreciation of / for all your help .
There has been little appreciation in the value of property recently .
It 's nice to have an appreciative audience .
I 'm very appreciative of all the support you 've given me .
The police have finally apprehended the killer .
It 's normal to feel a little apprehension before starting a new job .
There is some apprehension in the office about who the new director will be .
Both the army and the police were involved in the apprehension of the terrorists .
I 'm very apprehensive about tomorrow's meeting .
I 've invited a lot of people to the party , but I 'm a little apprehensive that no one will come .
Most of the work was done by apprentices .
an apprentice carpenter
Michelangelo was apprenticed to Ghirlandaio in Florence for three years .
The president has been apprised of the situation .
We could just see the train approaching in the distance .
If you look out of the window on the left , you 'll see that we 're now approaching the Eiffel Tower .
I see it 's approaching lunchtime , so let 's take a break .
In my opinion , no other composers even begin to approach (= come near in quality to ) Mozart .
He 's very active for a man approaching 80 (= who is almost 80 years old ) .
I 'm not sure how to approach the problem .
We 've just approached the bank for / about a loan .
She 's been approached by a modelling agency .
Since our research so far has not produced any answers to this problem , we need to adopt a different approach to it .
I 've just read an interesting book which has a new approach to Shakespeare .
Michael is always very logical in his approach .
The siren signalled the approach of an ambulance .
Many kinds of birds fly south at the approach of winter .
Please fasten your seat belts , the plane is now making its final approach ( in)to (= is coming near to and preparing to land at ) Heathrow .
There is a very steep approach to the house .
UK We got stuck in a traffic jam on the approach road .
That 's the nearest approach to an apology you 're going to get from Paula .
The hospital is making approaches to local businesses (= asking them to help ) in their bid to raise money .
I hear that Everton have made an approach to (= an attempt to make a business arrangement with ) Arsenal to buy one of their players .
Graham 's always very approachable - why do n't you talk the problem over with him ?
It 's one of the few lakeside villages approachable by car .
The council has finally indicated its approbation of the plans .
Teachers aim to assess the appropriacy of the language used by their students in particular contexts .
Is this film appropriate for small children ?
I did n't think his comments were very appropriate at the time .
Is this an appropriate occasion to discuss finance ?
Please complete the appropriate parts of this form (= the parts that are right or necessary for your particular situation ) and return it as soon as possible .
Opposite
He lost his job when he was found to have appropriated some of the company's money .
The government have appropriated millions of pounds for the project .
The author objected to the appropriation of his story by an amateur filmmaker .
[ often plural ] The foundation was promised a seven percent increase to bring its appropriations to $ 2.07 billion .
He showed his approval by smiling broadly .
Alan is someone who always needs the approval of other people .
Sam always tried hard to win his father's approval .
formal Does the wine meet with your approval ? (= Do you like the wine ? )
The project has now received approval from the government .
The teacher gave the student a nod of approval .
She does n't approve of my friends .
He does n't approve of smoking .
I thoroughly approve of what the government is doing .
Opposite
We had to wait months for the council to approve our plans to extend the house .
The court approved the sale of the property .
What 's the approved way of dealing with this ?
This school only offers approved language courses .
She gave him an approving smile .
The sounds /w/ , /l/ , and /r/ are examples of approximants in English .
Can you give me an approximate idea of the numbers involved ?
The newspaper reports of the discussion only roughly approximated to (= were not exactly the same as ) what was actually said .
Could you give me a rough approximation of how many people will be coming ?
What he said bore no approximation whatsoever to the truth (= was not at all like the truth ) .
Books and laptops are among the appurtenances of student life .
The interest rate on my credit card is currently 25.5 percent APR .
après-ski entertainment
We came back in April .
The meeting is on 4 April .
I have n't seen her since last April .
I had an email from Sally yesterday - apropos ( of ) which , did you send her that article ?
Apropos what you said yesterday , I think you made the right decision .
clothes that are apropos to the occasion
an apt comment/description
The kitchen roof is apt to (= likely to ) leak when it rains .
She 's in her eighties now and apt to be a little forgetful .
We have some particularly apt students in the class this year .
My son has no/little aptitude for sport .
We will take your personal aptitudes and abilities into account .
I had to take an aptitude test before I began training as a nurse .
an aqua-aerobics class
Farming finfish , shellfish and aquatic plants , known collectively as aquaculture , is one of the world's fastest-growing food sectors .
an aquatint by Picasso
an aqueous solution
an aquiline nose (= a nose curved like an eagle's beak )
The Arab countries include Iraq , Saudi Arabia , Syria , and Egypt .
the Arabian peninsula
There are many regional varieties of Arabic .
1 and 2 are Arabic numerals .
Compare
Symptoms associated with an arachnoid cyst can include headaches , nausea , seizures , and visual disturbances .
the arbiters of fashion / taste
The government will be the final arbiter in the dispute .
Did you have a reason for choosing your destination or was it arbitrary ?
an arbitrary ruler
The company has been the subject of an arbitrary take-over .
I 've been asked to arbitrate between the opposing sides .
An outside adviser has been brought in to arbitrate the dispute between the management and the union .
Both sides in the dispute have agreed to go to arbitration (= to have the disagreement solved by an arbitrator ) .
Humans evolved from arboreal ancestors .
a rose arbour
The ball rose in a high arc and fell behind the boundary line .
The rocket arced gracefully into the sky .
a shopping arcade
He was the only person who understood all the arcane details of the agreement .
This argument may seem arcane to those not closely involved in the world of finance .
In many churches the side aisles are separated from the central aisle by a row of arches .
Passing through the arch , you enter an open courtyard .
The vines were trained over an arch , providing shade as well as fruit .
The temple's grand white arches rose conspicuously over the dirty decaying city .
The abbey is known for its majestic arches , fine doorways and elegant windows .
The town is dominated by the massive arches of a viaduct .
See also
The boat floated through the arch of the trees towards the bridge .
She has very high arches .
The premature loss of primary teeth causes shrinking of the dental arch .
Trees arch over the river .
Her eyebrows arched in contempt .
She watched the cat arch its back .
an arch tone of voice
an archbishop
an archduke
an arch-criminal
his arch-enemy
He 's always been an arch-opponent of the project .
an archaeological dig/excavation
an area/site of archaeological interest
an archaic system of government
an archaic law/rule/language
the Archangel Gabriel
The Archbishop of Canterbury holds the highest position in the Church of England .
The assassination of the Archduke Ferdinand started off the First World War .
The entrance to the cathedral is through an arched door .
The United States is the archetype of a federal society .
the Hawaiian archipelago
Bevan was the architect of the British National Health Service .
a building of architectural interest
to study architecture
Roman architecture
These old photographs should go in the family archives .
I 've been studying village records in the local archive .
This software helps firms archive and retrieve emails .
Polar bears live in the Arctic .
No trees grow in the Arctic regions .
The North of England has been experiencing Arctic conditions these past few days .
Corneal arcus is frequently associated with early coronary artery disease .
an ardent supporter of Manchester United
an ardent feminist
His ardour for her cooled after only a few weeks .
an arduous climb/task/journey
Is that snow in May , or are my eyes deceiving me ?
All areas of the country will have some rain tonight .
The area of New York to the south of Houston Street is known as Soho .
Houses in the London area (= in and around London ) are very expensive .
He 's an area manager (= is responsible for business in a particular area ) for a computer company .
This is a very poor area .
Dogs are not allowed in the children's play area .
Marketing is Paul's area .
Software is not really my area of expertise .
the area of a rectangle
Meadow Farm is 50 square kilometres in area .
The boys are n't going to the party .
I 'm late again , are n't I ?
an Olympic/a sports arena
After 30 years in the political arena , our local member of parliament is retiring next year .
thieves' argot
It is arguable which way is quicker .
It is arguable that the government has failed in this respect .
He is arguably the world's best football player .
Arguably , the drug should not have been made available .
The children are always arguing .
Kids , will you stop arguing with each other ?
They were arguing over / about which film to go and see .
The senator argued for / in favour of / against making cuts in military spending .
[ + that ] The senator argued that cuts in military spending were needed .
You can argue the case either way .
See also
The evidence argues a change in policy .
It does n't matter what you say , he 'll always argue the toss !
The children had an argument about / over what game to play .
He got into an argument with Jeff in the pub last night .
A decision was finally made after some heated argument .
Now that we 've heard all the arguments for and against the proposal , let 's vote on it .
[ + that ] Her husband was not convinced by her argument that they needed a bigger house .
I do n't think that 's a very strong/convincing/powerful argument .
The central argument (= main point ) of the book is that some of the plays were not written by Shakespeare .
He produced very clever argumentation in support of the proposal .
Do n't be so argumentative .
Did you hear all that argy - bargy last night ?
This argyle V-neck sweater is a classic piece of golf clothing .
a librarian (= person who works in a library )
a vegetarian (= a person who does not eat meat )
humanitarian aid (= help for injured, ill, or hungry people )
The desert is so arid that nothing can grow there .
After several arid years , the company has started to become successful .
I found his writing extremely arid .
Did I hear / understand you aright ?
Should the opportunity arise , I 'd love to go to China .
Could you work on Saturday , should the need arise (= if it were to be necessary ) ?
Are there any matters arising from (= caused by ) the last meeting ?
We arose early on Christmas morning .
members of the aristocracy
Many aristocrats were killed in the French Revolution .
I 've never been very good at arithmetic .
an arithmetic test
I did some quick mental arithmetic and decided it was going to cost too much .
I ca n't figure out which of these is cheaper - could you do the arithmetic ?
Compare
My arms ache from carrying this bag .
She put / threw her arms round me and gave me a hug .
He took / held her in his arms (= held her closely ) .
Bill arrived at the party with his new girlfriend on his arm (= her hand resting on his arm ) .
the arm of a jacket
the arm of a chair
We walked arm in arm along the river bank .
They have been charged with supplying arms to the guerrillas .
An arms cache was discovered in South Wales .
The minister has called on the terrorists to lay down their arms (= stop fighting ) .
They are willing to take up arms (= prepare to fight ) ( against the government ) if they have to .
The British company is one arm of a large multinational .
Nobody knows who is arming the terrorists .
I armed myself with a baseball bat and went to investigate the noise .
They are currently arming for war .
Opposite
She armed herself for the interview by finding out all she could about the company in advance .
I went to the meeting armed with the relevant facts and figures .
The vote was won only as the result of much arm-twisting by the government .
an environmental Armageddon
As the country prepares for war , more and more money is being spent on armament .
the country's armaments programme
All the stewards at the racetrack were wearing armbands .
black armbands for a funeral
She sat in an armchair by the fire , reading a newspaper .
an armchair critic/gardener/traveller
These men are armed and dangerous , and should not be approached .
Opposite
The gunman was reported as being armed to the teeth and equipped with both a rifle and a pistol .
a one-armed person
She struggled along with an armful of clothes .
A two-week armistice has been declared between the rival factions .
Police put on body armour before confronting the rioters .
In the past , knights used to wear suits of armour (= protective covering made of metal ) in battle .
These grenades are able to pierce the armour of tanks .
The troops were backed by tanks , artillery , and other heavy armour .
an armoured tank
an armoured division (= military group )
The two countries signed an agreement to reduce their nuclear armouries .
Fighter planes have successfully bombed the enemy's main armoury .
The only weapon left in his armoury was indifference .
sweaty/hairy armpits
When did you join the army ?
He has decided on a career in the British Army .
The army was / were called out to enforce the curfew .
Both the armies suffered heavy losses in the battle .
The minister is believed to have been killed by the rebel army .
She brought an army of supporters with her .
[ C usually singular ] informal the supporters of a football team , especially ones who travel to games in different towns , cities , or countries
Scotland's 1 - 0 victory over France gave the Tartan Army something to celebrate .
Compare
the aroma of freshly baked bread
a wine with a light , fruity aroma
We sat around the table .
He put his arm around her .
A crowd had gathered around the scene of the accident .
She had a scarf around her neck .
The moon goes around the earth .
I walked around the side of the building .
As the bus left , she turned around (= so that she was facing in the opposite direction ) and waved goodbye to us .
He put the wheel on the right/wrong way around (= facing the right/wrong way ) .
The children were dancing around the room .
I spent a year travelling around Africa and Asia .
The museum's collection includes works of art from all around the world .
She passed a plate of biscuits around (= from one person to another ) .
This virus has been going around (= from one person to another ) .
He always leaves his clothes lying around ( on the floor ) .
She went into town and spent two hours just walking around .
Let 's take the children to the park so they can run around for a while .
I used to live around (= near ) here .
She 's never around (= near here ) when you need her .
Will you be around next week ?
There 's a lot of flu around (= a lot of people have it ) at the moment .
Smartphones have been around (= existed ) for quite a while .
She earns around $ 40,000 a year .
The skater twirled around and around .
If I 'd stayed there any longer I 'd have gone around the bend .
It 's a subject that has aroused a lot of interest .
Our suspicions were first aroused when we heard a muffled scream .
See also
arrival : used in timetables to show the time at which a bus , train , or aircraft reaches a place
He was arraigned on charges of aiding and abetting terrorists .
I 'm trying to arrange my work so that I can have a couple of days off next week .
The meeting has been arranged for Wednesday .
[ + to infinitive ] They arranged to have dinner the following month .
I 've already arranged with him to meet at the cinema .
She 's arranged for her son to have swimming lessons .
[ + that ] I 'd deliberately arranged that they should arrive at the same time .
[ + question word ] We have n't yet arranged when to meet .
She arranged her birthday cards along the shelf .
Who arranged these flowers so beautifully ?
His books are neatly arranged in alphabetical order .
Beethoven's fifth symphony has been arranged for the piano .
They 'd made all the arrangements for the party .
[ + to infinitive ] Arrangements were made to move the prisoners to another jail .
What are your current childcare arrangements ?
[ + that ] We had an arrangement that he would clean the house and I would cook .
I 'm sure we can come to an arrangement (= reach an agreement ) .
You can only withdraw money from this account by (prior) arrangement (= after making plans to do so ) with the bank .
There was a striking arrangement of dried flowers on the table .
This new arrangement of the piece is for saxophone and piano .
He dismissed the rumours as `arrant nonsense ' .
There was a splendid array of food on the table .
They sat before an array of microphones and cameras .
A large number of magazines were arrayed on the stand .
Arrayed (= standing in a group ) before him were 40 schoolchildren in purple and green .
She was arrayed in purple velvet .
rent arrears
He was arrested when customs officers found drugs in his bag .
The police arrested her for drinking and driving .
The treatment has so far done little to arrest the spread of the cancer .
A photo of a small boy arrested my attention .
Two arrests were made , but the men were later released without charge .
She was stopped outside the shop and placed / put under arrest .
Not having your license with you while driving is an arrestable offence in many countries .
an arresting-looking woman
An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of your heartbeat . the management of heart arrhythmia
Hundreds gathered to await the boxer's arrival at the airport .
On arrival at the police station , they were taken to an interview room .
New arrivals (= people who have just come to a place ) were being housed in refugee camps .
Sue and Michael are delighted to announce the arrival (= birth ) of Emily , born on 21 August .
The arrival (= introduction ) of satellite television changed the face of broadcasting .
Their new arrival was keeping them busy .
What time will your train arrive ?
It was dark by the time we arrived at the station .
We arrived in Prague later that day .
I arrived back to find that my room had been burgled .
What time does the mail usually arrive (= is it delivered ) ?
I ordered some CDs over a month ago , but they still have n't arrived (= I have not received them ) .
The leaves starting to turn brown is a sign that autumn has arrived .
Their baby Olivia arrived on the date she was expected .
We all argued about it for hours and eventually arrived at a decision .
I found him arrogant and rude .
They arrogate to themselves the power to punish people .
Robin Hood asked to be buried where his arrow landed .
I followed the arrows to the car park .
She has a huge arse .
I wish he 'd stop arsing around and actually do some work .
[ + to infinitive ] I ca n't be arsed to go shopping this afternoon .
Some arsehole had parked so I could n't get out .
The army planned to attack enemy arsenals .
The country has agreed to reduce its nuclear arsenal .
A cinema was burned out in north London last night . Police suspect arson .
Can television and pop music really be considered art ?
I enjoyed the ballet , but it was n't really great art .
Art and English were my best subjects at school .
an art teacher
The gallery has an excellent collection of modern art .
an exhibition of Native American art
Peggy Guggenheim was one of the 20th century's great art collectors .
The Frick is an art gallery in New York .
Drama is an art that is traditionally performed in a theatre .
Do you regard film as entertainment or as an art ?
She is doing a course in the performing arts .
More government money is needed for the arts .
public interest in the arts
More examplesMost people on the board of governors have an arts degree . The government announced today that it is to cut funding for the arts for next year . He was accomplished in all the arts . He wanted science students to take an interest in the arts , and to this end he ran literature classes at his home on Sunday afternoons . She was recently appointed Dean of the Faculty of Arts at my university .
At school I was quite good at arts , but hopeless at science .
Children should be given a well-balanced education in both the arts and the sciences .
arts graduates/degrees
the art of conversation
Getting him to go out is quite an art (= needs special skill ) .
The museum's collection includes artefacts dating back to prehistoric times .
Hardening of the coronary arteries can lead to a heart attack .
the main arteries leading into London
He has shown himself to be an artful politician .
The prime minister dealt with the interviewer's questions in a very artful way .
an arthousecinema
an arthouse film
Her hands were swollen and arthritic .
Many arthritics find it difficult to climb stairs .
In later life she was crippled with arthritis .
He is having an arthroscopy to remove debris in his knee .
Jerusalem artichoke
There was an interesting article on vegetarianism in the paper yesterday .
See also
indefinite article
Guests are advised not to leave any articles of value in their hotel rooms .
An article of clothing was found near the river .
articles of furniture
East and West Germany united under article 23 of the Bonn constitution .
Socialism was an article of faith with his parents .
She is articled to a big law firm (= she is working there as part of her training ) in the City of London .
an articled clerk
Inflammation can limit joint function , and destroy bone , cartilage , and other articular structures .
an intelligent and highly articulate young woman
She gave a witty, entertaining, and articulate speech .
I found myself unable to articulate my feelings .
Many people are opposed to the new law , but have had no opportunity to articulate their opposition .
When children first learn to talk , there are some sounds that they find difficult to articulate .
UK An articulated lorry has overturned on the southbound carriageway , shedding its load .
Compare
A good singer needs to have good articulation (= a clear way of pronouncing words ) .
Amazingly for Hollywood , she seems almost entirely without artifice .
clothes made of artificial fibres
an artificial heart
an artificial lake
Their cheerfulness seemed rather strained and artificial .
Rescuers pulled the child from the river , and she was given artificial respiration .
Naval gunfire and ground-based artillery are generally less accurate than many aircraft-borne weapons .
Monet is one of my favourite artists .
He described her as one of the greatest film artists of the 20th century .
a popular 19th-century music hall artiste
circus artistes
the artistic director of the theatre
a work of artistic merit
His friends are all artistic - they 're painters , musicians , and writers .
That 's a very artistic flower arrangement you have there .
You have to admire the artistry of her novels .
" Why did you take the money ? " she asked the child . " Because I wanted it , " came the artless reply .
All the artwork in the book has been done by the author .
She hangs out with a lot of arty types .
an arty-crafty market/gift shop
Phil and his arty-farty friends
She 'll soon be as tall as her mother .
I ca n't run as fast as you .
skin as soft as a baby 's
It 's not as good as it used to be .
She works as a waitress .
It could be used as evidence against him .
The news came as quite a shock to us .
I meant it as a joke .
As it was getting late , I decided to book into a hotel .
You can go first as you 're the oldest .
More examplesI'd frayed the edges of my jeans as that was the fashion in those days . I asked the teacher if I could be excused from football practice as my knee still hurt . The ceasefire treaty was meaningless , as neither side ever had any intention of keeping to it . Improved safety measures in cars can be counterproductive as they encourage people to drive faster . This man is desperate and should not be approached as he may have a gun .
I saw him as I was coming into the building .
He gets more attractive as he gets older .
He got divorced , ( just ) as his parents had done years before .
This year , as in previous years , tickets sold very quickly .
As with his earlier movies , the special effects in his latest film are brilliant .
As is often the case with children , Amy was completely better by the time the doctor arrived .
As I was just saying , I think the proposal needs further consideration .
Knowing him as I do , I ca n't believe he would do such a thing .
Angry as he was , he could n't help smiling .
As a general rule , I do n't read detective novels .
British police are supposed to use guns only as a last resort .
Safety precautions are observed as a matter of course .
The shoes are still stylish , and as a matter of fact , I 'm wearing a pair right now .
We 're not losing population in our town . As a matter of fact , people are moving in .
The population as a whole is getting healthier .
Leather jackets are as American as apple pie and Harley-Davidsons .
We do n't own a car - we just rent one as and when we need it .
I do n't think he 's been watering these plants - the soil is as dry as a bone .
As every schoolboy knows , the earth revolves around the sun .
It 's a good essay as far as it goes .
The road stretched into the distance as far as the eye could see .
He scuttled back into the house as fast as his legs would carry him .
As for Louise , well , who cares what she thinks .
The decorating is as good as finished - I just need to finish off the painting .
Although never married , they lived together as husband and wife for 50 years .
She was gulping down sandwiches and cakes as if they were going out of style .
He walked into the office as if he owned the place .
" Did you get a pay rise ? " " As if ! "
She looked as if she 'd had some bad news .
I felt as though I 'd been lying in the sun for hours .
They stared at me as if I was crazy .
Will you wait till it 's finished or take it home as is ?
" How do you like your coffee ? " " Oh , as it comes . "
I 'm not buying the children anything else today - I 've spent far too much money as it is .
If he still refuses we could always apply a little pressure , as it were .
I 'm doing (= studying ) five AS levels .
AS level French
We ran out of petrol on the way home , but as luck would have it , we were very near a garage .
My fare was £ 10 , and it was almost as much again for the children .
He as much as admitted that it was his fault .
I enjoy winning awards as much as the next guy , but other things are more important to me .
I felt so ill this morning , it was as much as I could do to get out of bed .
I knew he 'd fail - I said as much at the time .
Go on , lend me the money - you know I 'd do as much for you .
Satellite technology offers the opportunity , as never before , for continuous television coverage of major international events .
As of next month , all the airline's fares will be going up .
As one man , the delegates made for the exit .
I had two spoonfuls after lunch , as per instructions .
Carlo turned up without any money , as per usual .
Her skin was as smooth as silk .
It slides right into the hole , as the actress said to the bishop .
He was uncertain as to which road to take .
There 's no decision as to when the work might start .
As to where we 'll get the money from , we 'll talk about that later .
" I think we should leave now . " " Very well . As you wish . "
She 's really quite unpleasant about other people and she 's as mean as hell .
I 'm as blind as a bat without my glasses .
She marched into the store , as bold as brass , and demanded her money back .
Clear as a bell , from the back of the theatre came a child's voice saying , " I want to go home " .
The instructions were as clear as day .
It 's as clear as day that the government is going to win the election .
His instructions were as clear as mud .
She walked in as cool as a cucumber , as if nothing had happened .
Grandad 's as deaf as a post .
I looked up from my newspaper and there he was , as large as life , Tim Trotter !
There was a list of complaints as long as your arm .
She was as pleased as Punch about the news .
Jones was once described by a friend as being as proud as Lucifer .
In this country the trains are regular as clockwork .
He calls me every day at ten , as regular as clockwork .
The old lady's back is still as straight as a ramrod .
The road runs ( as ) straight as a die for 50 or so miles .
She 's as straight as a die , I can trust her to tell me what she 's really thinking .
One day he 'll realize that I was right , as sure as eggs is eggs .
There better be another way in - I 'm sure as hell not climbing up all those steps .
He 's a very skilled football player but he 's as thick as two short planks .
He might be in his eighties but he 's tough as old boots , that man .
It 's impossible to predict what he 'll do - he just acts when the spirit moves him .
He 's as fat as anything (= very fat ) .
Please reply ASAP .
They slowly ascended the steep path up the mountain .
There 's a long flight of steps ascending (= leading up ) to the cathedral doors .
He eventually ascended to the position of chief executive .
They are in danger of losing their political ascendancy (= controlling power ) .
Supporters of the proposal are currently in the ascendancy over its opponents (= are more powerful than them ) .
He 's very much in the ascendant in Hollywood .
I shall list my objections to the plan in ascending order of importance .
She made her first successful ascent of Everest last year .
As the plane made its ascent , we saw thick smoke coming from one engine .
We struggled up the slippery ascent .
His ascent to power was rapid and unexpected .
The police have so far been unable to ascertain the cause of the explosion .
[ + question word ] Have you ascertained whether she 's coming or not ?
[ + that ] I ascertained that no one could overhear us before I told Otto the news .
They live a very ascetic life .
He lived as an ascetic .
a document in ASCII format
After years of research , scholars have finally ascribed this anonymous play to Christopher Marlowe .
People like to ascribe human feelings to animals .
To what do you ascribe your phenomenal success ?
an aseptic wound/dressing/bandage
I must say I 've always found him rather asexual .
cigarette ash
Her ashes were scattered at sea .
She 's an ash blonde .
You 've got nothing to be ashamed of .
She ought to be thoroughly ashamed of herself - talking to her mother like that !
[ + to infinitive ] He was ashamed to admit to his mistake .
[ + that ] I was ashamed that I 'd made so little effort .
I 'm ashamed to be seen with you when you behave so badly !
I felt so ashamed of myself for making such a fuss .
I 'm so ashamed of you (= embarrassed to be connected with you ) !
Julie walked in , ashen - faced with shock .
She was thin and her face was ashen .
We swam ashore .
A few pieces of wood had washed ashore .
Strong winds blew the ship ashore .
Anatolia is the Asiatic region of Turkey (= the part of Turkey that is in Asia rather than Europe ) .
Stand aside , please , and let these people pass .
He pulled the curtain aside .
I gave her a plate of food but she pushed it aside .
I 've forgotten my wallet , so could you put this book aside (= keep this book ) for me and I 'll come back later on .
She took me aside (= took me away from the other people ) to tell me the news .
Every week I put aside some money for a new TV .
Let 's leave that matter aside for now and talk about the more urgent problem facing us .
Money continues to be a problem but aside from that we 're all well .
I hardly watch any television , aside from news and current affairs .
a whispered aside
The informative asides about rural life make this wine guide rather special .
an asinine comment
[ + two objects ] She asked me a question .
She asked a question about Welsh history .
She asked me about Welsh history .
She asked about Welsh history .
[ + question word ] I 've no idea what time the train leaves . Ask the guard whether he knows .
I asked the guard the time of the train's departure .
I asked when the train would leave .
[ + speech ] " What time does the train leave ? " I asked .
She needs to ask herself why nobody seems to like her .
If you need any help , please do n't hesitate to ask .
She asked ( her manager ) if / whether she could leave early to pick up the kids .
I asked to see my accountant .
You should ask ( your accountant ) for some financial advice .
[ + to infinitive ] You should ask your accountant to give you some financial advice .
Can I ask you a favour?/formal Can I ask a favour of you ?
I 'd like to ask your advice/opinion on a financial matter .
You have to ask permission to leave .
formal We ask that any faulty goods be returned in their original packaging .
[ + that ] formal The solicitor asked that her client be allowed to make a phone call .
UK I 've asked David to the party .
[ + to infinitive ] US I 've asked David to come to the party .
" Are you going to Muriel's party ? " " No , I have n't been asked . "
Jorge has asked us over for dinner next Friday .
UK Ian 's asked us round to / for dinner next Friday .
In fact they 've asked us to stay for the whole weekend .
More examplesI dare you to ask him to dance . He told me - and this is strictly entre nous - that he 's going to ask Ruth to marry him . He could n't get up the courage to ask her for a date . She managed to muster the courage to ask him to the cinema .
Greg 's asking (= expecting to be paid ) £ 250,000 for his house .
He asks too much of me - I ca n't always be there to help him .
It 's asking a lot when your boss wants you to work weekends as well as evenings .
Tell your father I was asking after him .
Our babysitter 's just moved away , so we 're asking around for a replacement .
A young man was here asking for you this morning .
She 's great to work for - I really could n't ask for a better boss .
I 'd ask you in for a coffee but I have to get up early for work in the morning .
She 's asked Steve out to the cinema this evening .
You should ask her out sometime .
They looked askance at our scruffy clothes .
Is n't that picture slightly askew ?
My hat was askew so I adjusted it in the mirror .
I 'm surprised to see you awake - ten minutes ago you were fast / sound (= completely ) asleep .
I 've only just got up and I 'm still half asleep (= not completely awake ) .
I fell asleep as soon as my head hit the pillow .
Which aspects of the job do you most enjoy ?
His illness affects almost every aspect of his life .
That 's the most worrying aspect of the situation .
Lighting is a vitally important aspect of filmmaking .
Have you thought about the problem from every aspect ?
The dining room has a southern aspect , which allows us to make the most of the sun .
The glasses and the beard lend him a rather scholarly aspect .
On our walk along the river we passed thundering waterfalls and quivering aspens .
the asperity of her manner
an asphalted road/pitch/court
The murder inquiry found that the children had been asphyxiated .
an aspirant to the throne
I 've never had any political aspirations .
It 's a story about the lives and aspirations of poor Irish immigrants .
In English , aspiration is an important feature in whether we hear a sound as /p/ or /b/ at the beginning of a word .
High-end smartphones have become aspirational status symbols , especially among the young .
Few people who aspire to fame ever achieve it .
[ + to infinitive ] As a child , he aspired to be a great writer .
I always take a couple of aspirins when I feel a cold starting .
Aspirin should not be given to young children .
a pompous ass
I 've never seen so much gorgeous ass .
Get your ass in my office now !
The victim had been assailed with repeated blows to the head and body .
He was assailed with insults and abuse as he left the court .
to be assailed by doubts / fears / problems
Can you describe your assailant ?
John Lennon's assassin was Mark Chapman .
She hired an assassin to eliminate her rival .
a plot to assassinate the president
an assassination attempt
the assassination of the opposition leader
He was charged with sexual assault .
UK The number of indecent assaults has increased alarmingly over the past year .
an assault on a police officer
They launched an assault on the capital yesterday .
Women's groups have demanded a nationwide assault on sexism in the workplace .
She died heroically during an assault on the world's second-highest mountain .
A woman and a man have been convicted of assaulting a police officer .
He had attempted to sexually assault the woman .
figurative Meetings with tax inspectors are often bureaucratic assault courses .
A varied assemblage of birds was probing the mud for food .
We assembled in the meeting room after lunch .
to assemble data
At the staff meeting , the manager told the assembled company (= everyone there ) that no one would lose their job .
furniture that is easy to assemble
the United Nations General Assembly
She has been tipped as a future member of the Welsh Assembly .
the New York Assembly
The Senate and the Assembly put aside political differences to pass the aid package .
Compare
All pupils are expected to attend school assembly .
There 's a religious assembly every morning .
The frame needs to be strong enough to support the engine assembly .
Once the directors have given their assent to the proposal we can begin .
She nodded her assent to the proposal .
UK Before an Act of Parliament can become law , it needs to receive Royal Assent (= an official signature ) from the monarch .
Compare
Have they assented to the terms of the contract ?
I really must assert myself more in meetings .
[ + that ] He asserts that she stole money from him .
Throughout the Cold War , the Allies asserted their right to move freely between the two Berlins .
She very rarely asserts her authority over the children .
I certainly do n't agree with his assertion that men are better drivers than women .
If you really want the promotion , you 'll have to be more assertive .
The insurers will need to assess the flood damage .
Exams are not the only means of assessing a student's ability .
It 's too early to assess the long-term consequences of the two countries' union .
[ + question word ] We need to assess whether the project is worth doing .
Would you say that is a fair assessment of the situation ?
Both their assessments of production costs were hopelessly inaccurate .
The assessor stated that the fire damage was not as severe as the hotel's owner had claimed .
He 'll be a great asset to the team .
Her eyes are her best asset (= most attractive feature ) .
Knowledge of languages is a real asset in this sort of work .
A company's assets can consist of cash , investments , specialist knowledge , or copyright material .
liquid assets (= money or things that can easily be changed into money )
Compare
Some asshole had parked so I could n't get out .
an assiduous student
The government has been assiduous in the fight against inflation .
[ + two objects ] UN troops were assigned the task of rebuilding the hospital .
The case has been assigned to our most senior officer .
Have you assigned a day for the interviews yet ?
Detectives have been unable to assign a motive for the murder .
The report assigned the blame for the accident to inadequate safety regulations .
She was assigned to the newspaper's Berlin office .
Her property was assigned to her grandchildren .
Which police officer has been assigned to this case ?
a freelance/photo assignment
I have a lot of reading assignments to complete before the end of term .
a foreign/diplomatic assignment
Both journalists were killed by terrorists while on assignment in the region .
The European Union should remain flexible enough to assimilate more countries quickly .
You should n't expect immigrants to assimilate into an alien culture immediately .
It 's hard to assimilate so much information .
In this form vitamins can be easily assimilated by the body .
The assimilation of ethnic Germans in the US was accelerated by the two world wars .
Poor assimilation of vitamins and nutrients can cause health problems .
The army arrived to assist in the search .
You will be expected to assist the editor with the selection of illustrations for the book .
Ozil has the most assists in the Premier League this season .
The company needs more financial assistance from the government .
A £1 billion investment would be of considerable assistance to the local economy .
Can I be of any assistance (= can I help ) , madam ?
Teachers ca n't give pupils any assistance in exams .
an administrative/office assistant
an assistant editor/manager
a sales/shop assistant
The assistant referee raised his flag for offside .
associate
Most people associate this brand with good quality .
A close associate of the author denied reports that she had cancer .
a business associate
an associate of arts
an associate member of an organization
I do n't want my children associating with drug addicts and alcoholics .
She was prepared to take on the job , with all its associated risks .
The Football Association
The British Medical Association is / are campaigning for a complete ban on tobacco advertising .
her association with the university
This event was organized in association with a local school .
The beach has positive associations for me as I used to spend my holidays there .
Compare
a case of assorted wines
an assortment of vegetables
An unlikely assortment of rock stars and politicians attended the charity concert .
The government has tried to assuage the public's fears .
[ + ( that ) ] I assumed ( that ) you knew each other because you went to the same school .
Let 's assume ( that ) they 're coming and make plans on that basis .
[ + to infinitive ] We ca n't assume the suspects to be guilty simply because they 've decided to remain silent .
We must n't assume the suspects' guilt .
Moving to a different town , he assumed a false name .
During the investigation , two detectives assumed the identities of antiques dealers .
He assumed a look of indifference but I knew how he felt .
The new president assumes office at midnight tonight .
The terrorists assumed control of the plane and forced it to land in the desert .
The issue has assumed considerable political proportions (= has become a big political problem ) .
Even assuming that smokers do see the health warnings , I doubt they 'll take any notice .
People tend to make assumptions about you when you have a disability .
These calculations are based on the assumption that prices will continue to rise .
The revolutionaries' assumption of power took the army by surprise .
[ + ( that ) ] She gave me her assurance ( that ) she would sign the contract immediately .
Despite the government's repeated assurances to the contrary , taxation has risen over the past decade .
He spoke with calm assurance .
The unions assured the new owners of the workers' loyalty to the company .
[ + speech ] " Do n't worry , your car will be ready tomorrow , " the mechanic assured him .
[ + ( that ) ] She assured him ( that ) the car would be ready the next day .
The prime minister assured the electorate ( that ) taxes would not be increased after the election .
You can rest assured (= feel confident ) that I shall be there as promised .
The play's popularity has been assured by the critics' rave reviews .
an assured performance
Now that the financing has been secured , the production of the film is assured .
After a disappointing first set , Nadal played assuredly and went on to win the match .
These problems might not be solved by money alone , but they will assuredly not be solved without it .
Sometimes taboo words are written with asterisks to avoid causing offence .
I have asterisked the books that are essential reading for the course .
an asthma sufferer
an asthma attack
an asthmatic attack
She 's been an asthmatic since her childhood .
The rusty old car wheezed asthmatically into life .
She was rarely astir later than seven o'clock .
After the explosion , the hospital was astir with overworked nurses and doctors .
I was astonished by how much she 'd grown .
What astonished me was that he did n't seem to mind .
[ + to infinitive ] I was astonished to see Miriam there .
They looked astonished when I announced I was pregnant .
The doctors were astonished at the speed of her recovery .
Her first novel enjoyed an astonishing success .
[ + to infinitive ] It 's astonishing to think that only a few years ago he was a completely unknown actor .
To the astonishment of her colleagues , she resigned .
She gasped in astonishment .
The news astounded me .
[ + to infinitive ] I was astounded to hear that Tina had left .
an astounding fact/decision/revelation
an astounding (= very great) victory/achievement/success
The letter must have gone astray in the post .
I was led astray by an out - of - date map .
Her parents worried that she might be led astray (= encouraged to behave badly ) by her unsuitable friends .
She sat proudly astride her new motorbike .
figurative The town lies astride (= on either side of ) the River Havel .
He stood there , legs astride .
You can use an astringent to make your skin less oily .
an astringent cream
her astringent wit
astrology
astronaut
astrophysics
the Royal Astronomical Society
an astronomical rent/bill/price/fee
The satellite will observe objects that are particularly interesting astronomically .
an astute investor/businesswoman
his astute handling of the situation
an astute observer of human behaviour
Their lives were torn asunder by the tragedy .
to seek / apply for political asylum
a lunatic asylum
genuine/bogus asylum seekers
A record number of asylum seekers arrived in the UK last month .
Lisette came back from New York with a trendy asymmetric haircut .
an asynchronous online course that can be followed from anywhere in the world
We 'll meet you at the entrance .
That bit at the beginning of the film was brilliant .
She 's sitting at the table in the corner .
She was standing at the top of the stairs .
The dog came and lay down at (= next to ) my feet .
There 's someone at the door (= someone is outside and wants to come in ) .
We spent the afternoon at a football match .
I enjoyed my three years at university .
I called her but she was at lunch (= away , eating her lunch ) .
There 's a meeting at 2.30 this afternoon .
Are you free at lunchtime ?
The bells ring at regular intervals through the day .
At no time/point did the company do anything illegal .
I 'm busy at the moment (= now ) - can you call back later ?
It 's a shame I was n't here to meet you - I was overseas at the time (= then ) .
She smiled at me .
They waved at us as we drove by .
She aimed at the target .
" Look at me ! Look at me ! " called the little girl .
He 's always shouting at the children .
More examplesThe old man clenched his fist and waved it angrily at us . She could no longer contain her anger and shouted at him uncontrollably . The talks are aimed at finding a mutually agreeable solution . She darted an angry look at me and I shut up . He fired six shots at the target , but his aim was terrible , and he missed all of them .
We were surprised at the news .
I was quite excited at the prospect .
Why does no one ever laugh at my jokes ?
I was never very good at sports .
He 's very good at getting on with people .
She 's hopeless at organizing things .
" What 's your email address ? " " It 's dictionary at cambridge dot org . "
More examplesGranddad wrote ' at ' in the address instead of the @ symbol - that 's why it did n't work . Where is the key for ' at ' on this keyboard?You missed out the @ in your email address . Hold down the shift key , otherwise you will type an inverted comma instead of an ' at ' sign . Alternatively , you can email your order to directcustserve@cambridge.org .
Inflation is running at 5 percent .
He was driving at 120 mph when the police spotted him .
a country at war
children at play
You can take the documents home and study them at (your) leisure .
Consumer confidence is currently at a low ebb .
I was recently divorced and feeling at a very low ebb .
We ca n't be expected to just drop everything and leave at a moment's notice .
I need £ 2,000 to set up the business , but I suppose £ 1,500 would do at a pinch .
At a push I could be there by eight o'clock .
She got through her work at a rate of knots .
The roads were full of traffic and we were travelling at a snail's pace for two hours .
He 's had no food at all .
I have n't been at all well recently .
I 'm afraid I have nothing at all to say .
Is there any uncertainty at all about the way she died ?
Why bother getting up at all when you do n't have a job to go to ?
Security during the president's visit must be maintained at all costs .
He wanted her at any cost , even if it meant giving up everything he had .
He wanted success at any price .
Well , I 'm not going home on foot , at any rate .
I do n't think they liked my idea . At any rate , they were n't very enthusiastic about it .
Jealousy is , at bottom , a lack of self-confidence .
When you see famous people at close quarters , they always appear much smaller than you imagined them .
He was shot at close range .
Those two are always at each other's throats .
They do their best to frustrate my efforts at every turn .
At first , I thought he was joking but then I realized he meant it .
The plant is operating at full tilt to cope with demand .
He 's working at full throttle (= as hard as he can ) to get the job finished .
The captain of the boat had his engines at full throttle .
We want to ensure that help is at hand (= easily available ) for all children suffering abuse .
He had dozens of friends , but he was a private person at heart .
He was declared insane and ordered to be detained in a mental hospital at Her Majesty's pleasure .
This group is not representative of the population at large .
It will be £ 200 at the very least .
You 'll have to wait at least an hour .
I 've met the president - at least , he shook my hand once .
See also
It 's a small house but at least there 's a garden .
Even if she did n't want to send a present , she could at least have sent a card .
Charlotte felt she was at one remove from reality .
At this remove it is difficult to estimate what the total value of the estate was .
This kind of artistic representation is at many removes from the subject .
Now she is at peace and her suffering is over .
Go and get it yourself ! I 'm not at your beck and call , you know .
During the visit , the interpreter was always at her elbow .
I 'm all / completely at sea with the new computer system .
I ca n't cancel my plans at such short notice .
We 've been at sixes and sevens in the office this week .
Thousands of lives will be at stake if emergency aid does not arrive in the city soon .
It 's too expensive , and probably out - of - date at that .
Our car is slow even at the best of times .
At the coalface with a deadline looming , you sometimes feel under a lot of pressure .
We 'll have to leave at the crack of dawn .
People will file lawsuits at the drop of a hat these days .
Of course I 'll listen to what she has to say but at the end of the day , it 's my decision .
By six o'clock after a busy day I 'm at the end of my tether .
By six o'clock after a busy day , I 'm at the end of my tether .
Would you stop making jokes at my expense ?
He had no need to protect their reputation at the expense of his own .
How many people have died at the hands of terrorist organizations ?
You ca n't expect to get everything you need at the push of a button .
At the risk of seeming rude , I 'm afraid I have to leave now .
At the risk of sounding stupid , how do I send this email ?
No one likes conflict , but at the same time we have to deal with this problem .
Politicians know they can not create a lawful society simply at the stroke of a pen .
She shouted his name at the top of her voice .
At this rate , we wo n't be home until midnight .
He can cry at will .
At worst , she can only tell you off for being late .
She is at worst corrupt , and at best has been knowingly breaking the rules .
As a writer , she has both style and humour at her command .
" I ca n't reach my zip - could you unfasten it , please ? " " I 'm at your command ! "
He has all the latest statistics at his fingertips .
I learned to sew at my mother's knee .
I 'm at my worst first thing in the morning .
This problem over late payment has shown him at his worst .
The two sides have been at daggers drawn for some months now with no sign of improvement in relations .
He had the television on at full blast .
He was driving at full speed down the motorway when it happened .
The emergency services are working at full stretch today to cope with the accident .
Many residents in at - risk areas move their cars to higher ground when floods threaten .
You can buy the best of gourmet cuisine here , for a price .
I got all my Christmas shopping done in one fell swoop .
I enjoyed the book so much that I read it all in one sitting .
It 's been at the back of my mind to call José for several days now , but I have n't got round to it yet .
Fireworks started at the stroke of ten .
an atavistic fear of the dark
Compare
She has the build of an athlete .
She looks very athletic .
This college has a long tradition of athletic excellence .
The team's superb athleticism compensated for their lack of international experience .
an athletics team/club/meeting
Girls who participate in high school athletics are more likely to graduate than those who do n’t .
a 24-hour dance-athon
a walkathon
/ətˈlæn.tɪk ˌeʊ.ʃən/ us
a road atlas
an atlas of the world
a wine atlas
an atlas of British plants
Is there an ATM near here ? I need to get some money out .
These factories are releasing toxic gases into the atmosphere .
the search for planets with a breathable atmosphere
The atmosphere in the room was so stuffy I could hardly breathe .
A few plants in an office will improve the atmosphere .
There 's a very relaxed atmosphere in our office .
There has been an atmosphere of gloom in the factory since it was announced that it would be closing .
You want a restaurant that serves good food but has a little atmosphere too .
He put on some soft music and turned the lights down in order to give the room a little more atmosphere .
Plants are the main source of atmospheric oxygen .
If atmospheric conditions are right , it may be possible to see this group of stars tonight .
I quite like fog because it 's atmospheric .
the Bikini Atoll
figurative He has n't an atom of sense (= he has no sense ) , that boy .
See also
Compare
This perfume is available in both a normal bottle and an atomizer .
The country's leader has expressed a wish to atone for his actions in the past .
He said that young hooligans should do community service as atonement for their crimes .
She sat atop a two-metre wall .
Premature beats that occur in the atria are called premature atrial contractions .
Patients with atrial fibrillation may be fitted with pacemakers .
Her ECG showed atrial flutter .
an atrocious film/piece of acting
The weather has been atrocious all week .
Conditions in the prison were atrocious .
an atrocious crime
They are on trial for committing atrocities against the civilian population .
These people are guilty of acts of appalling atrocity (= cruelty ) .
After several months in a hospital bed , my leg muscles had atrophied .
In the 1980s , their political power gradually atrophied (= became weaker ) .
I attached a photo to my application form .
Use this cable to attach the printer to the computer .
In the UK , packets of cigarettes come with a government health warning attached to them (= on them ) .
I attach (= am sending , usually with a letter ) a copy of our latest report .
Compare
I do n't attach any importance/significance to these rumours .
She attaches great value to being financially independent .
Do n't worry - it was an accident and no blame attaches to either of you .
[ + -ing verb ] Great honour attaches to winning this award .
Being on his own , he attached himself to a noisy group at the bar .
a naval/military/press/cultural attaché
Compare
The children are very attached to their grandparents .
I 'm very attached to my old guitar .
This food processor has a special attachment for grinding coffee .
I 'll email my report to you as an attachment .
I was n't able to open that attachment .
At university I formed a strong attachment to one of my tutors .
She is unlikely to give up her lifelong attachment to feminist ideas .
Secure attachment is believed to be important for healthy development .
Infants can form attachments to any caregiver .
He was attacked and seriously injured by a gang of youths .
Army forces have been attacking the town since dawn .
Most wild animals wo n't attack unless they are provoked .
She wrote an article attacking the judges and their conduct of the trial .
The report attacks the idea of exams for seven and eight-year-olds .
AIDS attacks the body's immune system .
My rose bushes are being attacked by aphids .
We have to attack these problems now and find some solutions .
The children rushed in and eagerly attacked the food (= quickly started to eat it ) .
a racist attack
Enemy forces have made an attack on the city .
These bomb blasts suggest that the terrorists are ( going ) on the attack (= trying to defeat or hurt other people ) again .
The town was once again under attack (= being attacked ) .
More examplesThe terrorist attack on the UN building has shocked the civilized world . The submarine dived just in time to avoid the enemy attack . The police have to arm themselves against attack . An 80-year-old woman was badly hurt in what the police describe as an apparently motiveless attack .The rebel headquarters took a direct hit from a bomb during the attack .
a scathing attack on the president
The government has come under attack from all sides for cutting education spending .
an attack of asthma/flu/malaria
figurative an attack of the giggles
The team has a strong attack , but its defence is weak .
The team is strong inattack but useless in defence .
The team needs to put some more attack into its game .
The police think she must have known her attacker .
He has attained the highest grade in his music exams .
We need to identify the best ways of attaining our objectives/goals .
India attained independence in 1947 , after decades of struggle .
Synonym
We must ensure that we do not set ourselves goals that are not attainable .
Opposite
the attainment of a goal
[ + to infinitive ] He attempted to escape through a window .
He attempted a joke , but no one laughed .
There 's no point in even attempting an explanation - he 'll never listen .
[ + to infinitive ] She made a few half-hearted attempts to join in their conversation .
He made no attempt to be sociable .
This is my second attempt at the exam .
None of our attempts at contacting Dr James was successful .
They closed the road in an attempt (= to try to ) to reduce traffic in the city .
This is the third attempt on the President's life .
Chelsea had several attempts on goal in the first 15 minutes .
A man is being questioned in relation to the attempted murder/robbery last night .
Over two hundred people attended the funeral .
The meeting is on the fifth and we 're hoping everyone will attend .
See also
Which school do your children attend ?
I attended the classes/seminars/lectures for a month or two .
I 'm afraid I was n't attending to what was being said .
The queen was attended by her ladies - in - waiting .
the publicity that attends a career in television
Doctors tried to attend to the worst injured soldiers first .
I always have so many things to attend to when I come into the office after a trip abroad .
Attendance at lectures is compulsory .
Attendances at church are falling .
He never goes out without his security men in attendance .
a cloakroom/museum attendant
The Prince was followed by his attendants .
debt and its attendant problems
There are too many risks attendant on such a large investment of money .
the attendant crowd /fans
Ladies and gentlemen , could I have your attention , please ?
They 're organizing a campaign to draw people's attention to the environmentally harmful effects of using their cars .
Wait a moment and I 'll give you my full/undivided attention (= I 'll listen to and think about only you ) .
After an hour , my attention started to wander (= I stopped taking notice ) .
I knocked on the window to get her attention .
If you do n't pay attention now , you 'll get it all wrong later .
Do n't pay any attention to Nina - she does n't know what she 's talking about .
He was n't paying attention to the safety instructions .
He likes telling jokes and being the centre of attention at parties .
Many countries are starting to turn their attention to new forms of energy .
The paintwork will need a little attention .
If symptoms persist , seek medical attention .
soldiers standing at / to attention
Young children have quite short attention spans .
an attentive audience
He was very attentive to her when she was ill .
A good teacher is always attentive to their students' needs .
Radiation from the sun is attenuated by the earth's atmosphere .
Thousands of people came out onto the streets to attest their support for the democratic opposition party .
The number of old German cars still on the road attests ( to ) the excellence of their manufacture .
As his career attests , he is a world-class tennis player .
specialized The will needs to be attested (= officially marked to show that the signature of the person who made the will is correct ) by three witnesses .
I 've got boxes of old clothes in the attic .
an attic bedroom at the top of the house
I hardly think jeans are appropriate attire for a wedding .
It 's often very difficult to change people's attitudes .
[ + that ] She takes the attitude that children should be allowed to learn at their own pace .
He has a very bad attitude to / towards work .
He seems to have undergone a change in / of attitude recently , and has become much more cooperative .
I do n't like your attitude (= the way you are behaving ) .
That boy has a real attitude problem (= behaves in a way that makes it difficult for other people to have a relationship with him or work with him ) .
She lay sprawled across the sofa , in an attitude of complete abandon .
Recruitment personnel agreed that there was a need for an attitudinal change in this area of business .
These flowers are brightly coloured in order to attract butterflies .
The circus is attracting huge crowds/audiences .
The government is trying to attract industry to the area (= to persuade people to place their industry there ) .
Her ideas have attracted a lot of attention/criticism in the scientific community .
I 'm not physically / sexually attracted to him .
Magnets attract iron filings .
Since light has no mass , Newton's equation predicts that it will not be attracted by gravity towards anything .
Life in Los Angeles has so many attractions - nightclubs , good restaurants , and so on .
tourist attractions
The opportunity to travel is one of the main attractions of this job .
Skiing holds no attraction for me .
She felt an immediate physical attraction to him .
gravitational attraction
a very attractive young woman
I find him very attractive (= he attracts me sexually ) .
an attractive colour scheme
Spending twelve hours on a plane is n't a very attractive (= pleasant) prospect .
an attractive offer (= an offer with benefits for me )
We need to make the club attractive to a wider range of people .
Do you think that these higher-than-average temperatures are attributable to global warming ?
Organizational ability is an essential attribute for a good manager .
I would n't dream of attributing such a lack of judgment to you .
The doctors have attributed the cause of the illness to an unknown virus .
To what do you attribute this delay ?
Most experts have attributed the drawing to Michelangelo .
The usual attribution of the work to Leonardo is now disputed by several experts .
In "a sudden movement " , " sudden " is an adjective in the attributive position .
In "the television aerial " , "television " is a noun used in an attributive way .
The high attrition rates on the degree programs are a cause for concern .
A good nurse has to be attuned to the needs of his or her patients .
A mother's ears are attuned to even the slightest variation in her baby's breathing .
The sociable behaviour of lions is considered atypical of the cat family .
Are you au fait with the rules of the game ?
potatoes au gratin
auburn - haired
a furniture auction
They 're holding an auction of jewellery on Thursday .
The painting will be sold at auction next week .
The house and its contents are being put up for auction .
The stamps will be auctioned tomorrow .
The family is auctioning ( off ) its art collection .
He described the plan as ambitious and audacious .
an audacious remark/suggestion
[ + to infinitive ] It took a lot of audacity to stand up and criticize the chairman .
disapproving He had the audacity to blame me for his mistake !
The lecturer spoke so quietly that he was scarcely audible at the back of the hall .
She gave an audible sigh of relief .
She lectures to audiences all over the world .
The secret to public speaking is to get the audience on your side .
The audience was / were clearly delighted with the performance .
The magic show had a lot of audience participation , with people shouting things to the performers and going up on stage .
The television company has lost a large part of its audience since it changed its programming .
Her latest book should appeal to a large audience (= many people will want to read it ) .
She had a private audience with the king .
an audiocassette
audiotape
an audio signal
audiotape
We have a wide range of audiobooks for you to download to your smartphone or other listening device .
As a senior citizen , he is allowed to audit university classes .
The company has an audit at the end of each financial year .
His audition went well and he 's fairly hopeful about getting the part .
The director is holding auditions next week for the major parts .
I 'm auditioning for the part of Lady Macbeth .
We 're auditioning local rock bands for the music festival .
The external auditors (= from outside the company ) come in once a year .
No smoking in the auditorium .
It 's an artificial device that stimulates the auditory areas of the brain .
He would have to find work to augment his income .
The company's sales figures for the first six months augur well for the rest of the year .
Do you think that this recent ministerial announcement augurs (= is a sign of ) a shift in government policy ?
These sales figures are a good augury for another profitable year .
His remarkable recovery defied all medical augury .
the society's august patron , the Duke of Norfolk
They usually go to their holiday home in August .
We 're going to Australia on 1 August .
They got married last August .
I have an aunt in Australia .
This is my Aunt Camille .
[ as form of address ] Do you want some tea , Aunt Alice ?
姑母；姨母；嬸嬸；伯母；舅母（同 aunt）
The woods have an aura of mystery .
There 's an aura of sadness about him .
Synonym
The study evaluated the effect of auricular acupuncture in 20 cancer patients .
Financial aid is being provided to the country under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund .
They won their first match of the season 5–1 which was an auspicious start/beginning .
Our first meeting was not auspicious - we had a huge argument .
an austere childhood during the war
The courtroom was a large, dark chamber , an austere place .
He was a tall, austere, forbidding figure .
The wartime austerity of my early years prepared me for later hardships .
The austerities of life in a small rural community were not what I was used to .
People protested in the streets against austerity .
The government today announced new austerity measures .
the austerity of her short hair and plain grey suit
Australian wine/weather/politics
auteurs , such as Jean-Luc Godard or Lars von Trier
an authentic 1920s dress
He was there and saw what happened , so his is the only authentic account .
They used carbon dating tests to authenticate the claim that the skeleton was two million years old .
The poems are supposed to be by Sappho , but they are actually of doubtful authenticity .
The authenticity of her story is beyond doubt .
He is the author of two books on French history .
She 's the author of the company's recent success / of all our troubles .
He has authored more than 30 books .
The deal is being authored by a Greek diplomat .
web authoring
an authoritarian regime/government/ruler
His manner is extremely authoritarian .
She has an authoritative manner that at times is almost arrogant .
The book is an authoritative account of the Second World War .
The United Nations has used / exerted / exercised its authority to restore peace in the area .
We need to get the support of someone in authority (= an important or high-ranking person ) .
They 've been acting illegally and without authority (= permission ) from the council .
[ + to infinitive ] I 'll give my lawyers authority (= permission ) to act on my behalf .
He has no authority over (= ability to control ) his students .
She spoke with authority (= as if she was in control or had special knowledge ) .
the health authority
the local housing authority
I 'm going to report these potholes to the authorities .
She 's a world authority on 19th-century Irish history .
Medical records can not be disclosed without authorization from the patient .
[ + to infinitive ] The authorization to sell the shares arrived too late .
Who authorized this expenditure ?
The article is of unknown authorship (= it is not known who wrote it ) .
She is being attacked for her authorship of the policy document .
Autism is four times more common in boys than in girls .
the auto industry/market/business
an autofocus camera
an auto-immune disease
Tony Blair's autobiography was a bestseller .
Compare
His life story is recounted in two fascinating volumes of autobiography .
an autocratic ruler/regime
an autocratic style of government/leadership/management
The president resigned after 30 years of autocratic rule .
Since an autograft is used , no immunosuppression is necessary .
Did you get his autograph ?
I got her to autograph my T-shirt .
She gave me an autographed photograph of herself .
One type of diabetes is an autoimmune disease/disorder that may be triggered by a virus .
The nation's number three automaker set an all-time monthly sales record in June .
Massive investment is needed to automate the production process .
an automatic rifle
Over time , driving just becomes automatic .
My automatic response was to pull my hand away .
Citizenship is automatic for children born in this country .
You get an automatic promotion after two years .
Kate drives an automatic .
Compare
The camera adjusts the shutter speed automatically .
I automatically put my hand out to catch it .
Employees who steal are dismissed automatically .
I take the same route to work every day , like some sort of automaton .
the automobile industry
the automotive industry
an autonomous region/province/republic/council
Demonstrators demanded immediate autonomy for their region .
The universities want to preserve their autonomy from central government .
The plane was on autopilot when it crashed .
They carried out / performed an autopsy .
The body arrived for autopsy at the Dallas hospital .
Autosuggestion is the power of mind over matter - if you convince yourself that you are cured , you will be .
Compare
We like to travel in (the) autumn when there are fewer tourists .
Last autumn we went to Germany .
It 's been a very mild autumn .
an autumn day/evening
semi-skilled auxiliaries
In the sentence " she has finished her book " , " has " is an auxiliary .
We tried to persuade her not to resign , but to no avail (= did not succeed ) .
My attempts to improve the situation were of little/no avail .
Our efforts availed us nothing (= did not help ) .
Over a thousand learners have already availed the opportunity to study at our college .
To avail this offer , please click here .
Employees should avail themselves of the opportunity to buy cheap shares in the company .
The ready availability of guns has contributed to the escalating violence .
Abortion rates are high because the availability of contraceptives is limited .
I shall check the availability of my staff for that date .
Is this dress available in a larger size ?
Our autumn catalogue is now available from our usual stockists .
There 's no money available for an office party this year .
It is vital that food is made available to the famine areas .
Do you have any double rooms available this weekend ?
Every available officer will be assigned to the investigation .
We were swamped by an avalanche of letters/phone calls /complaints .
Her business empire brought her wealth beyond the dreams of avarice (= an extremely large amount of money ) .
Synonym
You can talk to other avatars with your words displayed in a cartoon bubble .
He swore he would avenge his brother's death .
She determined to avenge herself on the killer .
At the end of the film , the murderer is killed by his victim's avenging girlfriend .
Fremont Avenue
We should explore / pursue every avenue in the search for an answer to this problem .
Only two avenues are open to us - either we accept his offer or we give up the fight completely .
Synonym
The lawyer averred her client's innocence .
[ + speech ] " He 's guilty , I tell you , " she averred .
[ + that ] She averred that he was guilty .
Prices have risen by an average of four percent over the past year .
My income 's rather variable , but I earn £ 175 a day on average .
The audience figures were lower than average for this sort of film .
In western Europe , a seven to eight-hour working day is about the average .
On average , people who do n't smoke are healthier than people who do .
The quality of candidates was ( well ) below / above average .
I expect to spend an average of $ 50 to $ 60 on a meal in a restaurant .
Enquiries to our office average 1,000 calls a month .
Many doctors average (= work an average of ) 70 hours a week .
Trainee accountants average (= earn an average of ) £ 32,000 per year .
More examplesHe averaged 14 strikeouts per game last season . Ticket prices for the concert average at $ 45.Towards the end of the season , the team averaged three goals a game . The show averages a weekly audience of eight million . Hotels in the region are expensive , averaging £ 100 a night .
The average person on the street is a lot better off than they were 40 years ago .
a student of average ability
The food was fairly average (= not excellent , although not bad ) .
The highs and lows of life tend to average out in the end .
My annual holiday varies , but it averages out at five weeks a year .
Few people are averse to the idea of a free holiday .
I 'm not averse to (= I like ) the occasional glass of champagne myself .
I felt an instant aversion to his parents .
She has a deep aversion to getting up in the morning .
Greed is my pet aversion (= the thing I dislike most of all ) .
Despite what many people think , aversion therapy is no longer used by professional psychologists in this country .
emotionally aversive images
to avert a crisis/conflict/strike/famine
to avert disaster/economic collapse
Synonym
I averted my gaze/eyes while he dressed .
We tried to avert our thoughts from our massive financial problems .
the British Civil Aviation Authority
the US Federal Aviation Administration
an avid football fan
an avid supporter of the arts
He took an avid interest in the project .
formal She had n't seen him for six months and was avid for news .
Avionics forms an important part of the defence industry .
The sophisticated avionics enable the helicopter to operate at night .
I try to avoid supermarkets on Saturdays - they 're always so busy .
I 'm anxious to avoid the motorway at rush hour .
Do you think Lukas is avoiding me ? I have n't seen him all day .
[ + -ing verb ] I try to avoid going shopping on Saturdays .
The report studiously avoided any mention of the controversial plan .
The plane narrowly avoided disaster when one of the engines cut out on take-off .
I left the pub to avoid a fight (= prevent a fight from happening ) .
Unnecessary paperwork should be avoided (= prevented ) at all costs .
I 'm not a fan of parties - in fact I avoid them like the plague .
A number of illnesses are entirely avoidable .
In spite of these latest threats , war may still be avoidable .
The avoidance of injury is critical to a professional athlete .
[ + that ] He avowed that he regretted what he had done .
It is a society in which homosexuality is rarely avowed .
They were imprisoned for their avowal of anti-government beliefs .
Her public avowals to reduce crime have yet to be put into effect .
The government's avowed intent/purpose/aim is to reduce tax .
An avowed traditionalist , he is against reform of any kind .
an avuncular, quietly spoken man
His avuncular image belies his steely determination .
See also
He 's anxiously awaiting his test results .
A marvellous reception awaited me on my first day at work .
The long/eagerly awaited sequel is now available online .
" Is Oliver awake yet ? " " Yes , he 's wide (= completely ) awake and running around his bedroom . "
I find it so difficult to stay awake during history lessons .
I drink a lot of coffee to keep me awake .
She used to lie awake at night worrying about how to pay the bills .
Businesses need to be awake to the advantages of European integration .
I awoke at seven o'clock .
She awoke me at seven .
The chance meeting awoke the old passion between them .
Young people need to awake to the risks involved in casual sex .
They were awakened by the sound of gunfire .
I awakened at dawn to find him beside me .
My holiday in Paris awakened a passion for French food in me .
I awakened him to his responsibilities for his children .
a religious awakening
the awakening of public concern about the environment
He 's in for a rude awakening (= will be shocked ) when he starts work !
Carlos was awarded first prize in the essay competition .
[ + two objects ] The university has awarded her a $500 travel grant .
They have authorized awards of £ 900 to each of the victims .
the Academy Award for Best Director
an award-winning author/TV series/design
Click on the link below to see a list of this year's research grant awardees .
[ + that ] I was n't even aware that he was ill .
Were you aware of the risks at the time ?
She was well (= very ) aware that he was married .
" Has Claude paid the phone bill ? " " Not as far as I 'm aware . " (= I do n't think so )
I suddenly became aware of (= started to notice ) him looking at me .
to be ecologically / politically aware
sexually aware
Public awareness of the problem will make politicians take it seriously .
Environmental awareness has increased dramatically over the past decade .
By the time I discovered the problem , the floor was awash .
The city is awash with drugs and the police are powerless to do anything about it .
Ms Watson is away on holiday until the end of the week .
Keep / Stay away from him .
Just go away and leave me alone !
The sight was so horrible that I had to look / turn away .
The recent flood has swept away the footbridge .
I 've given away all my old clothes to charity .
UK Would you like your burger to eat in or take away ?
How far away is the station ?
The office is a half-hour drive away .
We live five kilometres away from each other .
Life 's so much quieter away from the city .
informal Oh , it 's miles away (= a long distance from here ) .
Would you put the ice cream away in the freezer ?
My grandparents had £ 800 hidden away in an old shoe box .
More examplesI told the children to put their toys and games away . Put that knife away before someone gets hurt . All the folders have been carefully numbered and filed away . The diamonds are shut away in a bank vault somewhere . At a word from their teacher , the children started to tidy away their books .
All the snow had melted away .
The music faded away as the procession moved slowly up the street .
We used to while away (= spend ) the weekends at my aunt's house in the country .
We danced the night away (= until the night was over ) .
My English exam 's only a week away and I have n't even started to prepare .
I was still writing away when the exam finished .
Chris has been working away in the garden all day .
We were chatting away at the back and did n't hear what he said .
We lost the away game but won both home games .
UK Everton unveiled their new yellow-and-blue away strip (= clothing worn by a team at away games ) .
I 've always held musicians in awe .
As children we were rather in awe of our grandfather .
You ca n't help but stand in awe of (= respect greatly and fear slightly ) powerful people .
I was awed but not frightened by the huge gorilla .
Her paintings have awed and amazed the public for half a century .
The audience was awed into silence by her stunning performance .
Niagara Falls really is an awe-inspiring sight .
Her knowledge of computers is quite awe - inspiring .
An awesome challenge/task lies ahead of them .
You look totally awesome in that dress .
an awestruck admirer/fan/visitor/tourist
I could tell she was impressed from the awestruck expression on her face .
He suffered awful injuries in the crash .
We had awful weather .
She has an awful boss .
What an awful thing to say !
Would life be so awful without a car ?
The food was awful .
She 'd been ill and she looked awful .
I do n't know an awful lot (= very much ) about art , but I 'm learning .
Fortunately it wo n't make an awful lot of difference if I do n't pass the test .
It was an awful risk to take .
It 's an awfully long time since we last saw each other .
I 'm awfully sorry , but we 've forgotten to reserve you a table .
England played awfully throughout the game .
Stay awhile and rest .
I read awhile , then slept .
It 's an awkward corner , so take it slowly .
Some of the questions were rather awkward .
It was an awkward ascent , but we reached the top eventually .
[ + to infinitive ] My car 's quite awkward to drive .
He 's an awkward customer (= a difficult person to deal with ) .
an awkward position/situation
There followed an awkward silence while we all tried to think of something to say .
They 'd chosen an awkward time to call as I 'd just got into the bath .
The police asked some awkward questions about where the money had come from .
I always feel awkward when I 'm with Chris - he 's so difficult to talk to .
He seemed a little awkward when I first met him .
Just stop being so awkward and help me push the car , will you !
Synonym
His movements were slow and awkward .
He shifted awkwardly from one foot to the other .
The publication of the economic statistics was awkwardly timed for the government .
She fell awkwardly when she was skiing and twisted her ankle .
He walked awkwardly across the room , aware that they were watching .
The car was parked awkwardly across the pavement .
He stood there awkwardly , refusing to move .
The gaily striped awnings of the market stalls made an attractive scene .
The pilot is serving 22 days' detention for going AWOL .
Anything that goes awry (= goes wrong ) in the office is blamed on Pete .
The strike has sent the plans for investment seriously awry .
She rushed in , her face red and sweaty and her hat awry .
Julian used an axe to chop down the old apple tree .
Over 500 staff are facing the axe .
Religious programmes will be the first to get the axe if she 's put in charge of the station .
Because of the recession the company is to axe 350 jobs .
The TV series will be axed owing to a decline in popularity .
It is a widely held axiom that governments should not negotiate with terrorists .
Euclid 's axioms form the foundation of his system of geometry .
It is an axiomatic fact that governments rise and fall on the state of the economy .
It seems axiomatic that everyone would benefit from a better scientific education .
The earth revolves around the axis that joins the North and South Poles .
The diameter of a circle is also an axis .
Plot distance on the vertical y-axis against time on the horizontal x-axis .
the Franco-German axis
the Axis powers/nations
" Would you prefer not to work ? " " Oh aye , I 'd stop tomorrow if I could . "
The ayes have it (= the people who voted " yes " have won ) .
The once azure skies of Athens have been ruined by atmospheric pollution .
If the obstruction is above the entry of the azygous vein , the syndrome is less pronounced .
Bach's Mass in B minor
I was a little disappointed just to be given a B , as I was hoping for an A.
I got B for physics last term .
He 's just a B-list actor .
a B2B exchange/company
Mr Pirouz is confident about the potential for B2B e-commerce .
B2C companies / e-commerce
We would not rule out the possibility of re - entering the B2C market if conditions change .
Farida has a BA in History from the University of Sussex .
The children babbled excitedly among themselves .
She was babbling something about her ring being stolen .
They rested a while by a babbling brook .
I could hear the babble of voices in the next room .
a newborn babe
It 's up to you , babe . I 'll do whatever you say .
He 's a total babe .
a babel of voices
a newborn baby
a six-week-old baby
a baby boy
Sandra had a baby (= gave birth to it ) on 29 May.
Owen is the baby (= the youngest person ) of the family .
a baby elephant/monkey
It did n't hurt that much - do n't be such a baby !
Oh baby , I love you .
I do n't know much about the project - it 's Philip's baby .
The boys were now ten and twelve and did n't want their mother to baby them .
According to this article , as many as 60 percent of women suffer from the baby blues .
There was a baby boom in the UK and the US after the Second World War .
I saw her pushing a baby carriage down the street .
He 's a little overweight but it 's just baby fat .
Olympic officials have already started to take baby steps to rein in costs .
The older children found the toys too babyish .
I babysit for Jane on Tuesday evenings while she goes to her yoga class .
Who babysits them when you 're at work ?
I promised the babysitter that we 'd be home by midnight .
I dropped the kids off at the babysitter 's .
See also
a bacchanalian orgy
Sam is a confirmed bachelor (= he is unlikely ever to want to get married ) .
Compare
When you take the scissors , remember to put them back .
He left a note saying " Gone out . Back soon . "
She went to Brazil for two years , but now she 's back (= has returned ) .
He looked back (= looked behind him ) and saw they were following him .
Looking at her old photographs brought back (= made her remember ) a lot of memories .
I was woken by a thunderstorm , and I could n't get back to sleep (= could not sleep again ) .
The last time we saw Lowell was back (= at an earlier time ) in January .
This tradition dates back to (= to the earlier time of ) the 16th century .
If he hits me , I 'll hit him back .
You 're not just going to let her say those things about you without fighting back , are you ?
I 'm busy at the moment - can I call you back ?
I wrote to Donna several months ago , but she has n't written back yet .
If we push the table back against the wall , we 'll have more room .
" Keep back ! " he shouted , " Do n't come any closer ! "
He sat back on the sofa .
She threw back her head and laughed uproariously .
The house is set back from the street .
He jotted her name down on the back of an envelope .
I found my tennis racket at the back of the cupboard .
We sat at the back of the bus .
Our seats were right at the back of the auditorium .
Ted was out / round the back (= in the area behind the house ) . "
There is a beautiful garden at the back of (= behind ) the house .
If there 's no reply at the front door , come round the back .
He put his jacket on the back of his chair (= the part of the chair that you put your back against when you sit on it ) .
The office was full of computers , and we had to sit back to back in long rows .
Coming up after the break , three Rolling Stones classics back to back .
See also
You 've put your jumper on back to front .
More examplesI always keep a tool set in the back of my car . She lay on the grass and the stiff dry grass prickled the back of her legs . The previous owner of the house had built an extension on the back . I found her kneeling in prayer at the back of the church . The keyboard plugs in at the back of the computer .
I have a bad back .
Sleeping on a bed that is too soft can be bad for your back .
He lay on his back , staring at the ceiling .
I turned my back (= turned around so that I could not see ) while she dressed .
She put her back out (= caused a serious injury to her back ) lifting a box .
Compare
The management has refused to back our proposals .
More examplesThis theory needs to be backed up with solid empirical evidence . The troops were backed by tanks , artillery , and other heavy armour . It is hoped that all sides will back the peace plan . A poll indicated that 77 percent of Americans backed the president's plan , with only 6 percent in opposition . Although Paris backs the U.N. demands , it has made it clear it will not take part in any new military action .
The horse I backed came in last .
Ann gave up driving when she backed the car into the garage door .
Please could you back your car up a few feet so that I can get mine out of the driveway ?
The material is backed with a heavy lining .
She left the house by the back door .
The back seat of the car folds down .
They owe the staff several thousand in back pay .
They were born into poverty and learned their trade in the back alleys of Naples , New York , or Chicago .
She swayed gently back and forth to the music .
She saw that he had a gun and backed away .
The government has backed away from plans to increase taxes .
There 's someone at the back door .
He opened the back door and gestured for her to get into the car .
HMI is to be privatised by the back door because the half of HMI who will not be employed by it will have to go and set up as private consultants .
The data collection exercise was designed to open the back door to an energy consumption tax on home owners .
Eventually , Roberto backed down and apologized .
Local residents have forced the local council to back down from / on its plans to build a nightclub on their street .
Helen lived in Oregon for two years before moving back east .
Mulumbu plays just in front of the back four .
Back in the day , we had an apartment with a swimming pool .
She started to criticize me , then she suddenly backed off .
Just back off and let us do this on our own , will you ?
I saw the knife and backed off .
I worked for several years as an administrator in the back office of a large corporation .
We provide back-office services for several companies .
The house backs onto a narrow alley .
You agreed to come . You ca n't back out now !
They backed out of the deal the day before they were due to sign the contract .
The latest fallout from the Premier League is all over the back pages .
My family backed me up throughout the court case .
Honestly , that 's exactly what happened - Claire will back me up .
Will you back me up if I say that I never saw him ?
Nelson will never take a back seat to anyone .
His claims are backed up by recent research .
Make sure you back up your files .
See also
In all his years as a book publisher , he rarely backed the wrong horse .
If this does n't work we 're back to square one .
The traffic is starting to back up on the M25 .
Hamilton is celebrating back - to - back victories in the German and British Grands Prix .
See also
UK back - to - back terraced houses
Gardening gives me such backache .
The prime minister expects strong support from the Labour backbenches .
a backbench revolt
Compare
The advantage of being a backbencher is that you can speak your mind .
Compare
A lot of backbiting goes on in our office .
She stood with her backbone rigid .
Farming is the backbone of the country's economy .
[ + to infinitive ] Will he have the backbone to tell them what he thinks ?
Digging the vegetable garden was backbreaking work .
That 's enough backchat ! You do as you 're told .
That night , I camped at Bee Island , one of the park's six backcountry campsites .
They got a pay rise in March that was backdated to January .
Compare
The change was immediately dismissed as a backdoor tax increase .
/ˈbæk.klɒθ/ us
/-klɑːθ/ a large piece of cloth with buildings , countryside , etc . painted on it , hung at the back of a stage during a performance
The mountains form a dramatic backdrop to the little village .
Their love affair began against a backdrop of war .
government-backed contracts
US-backed intervention
foam-backed carpet
high-backed dining chairs
The traffic is backed up for six miles on the road to the coast .
We need financial backers for the project .
Dig a large hole for the plant , then backfill with soil and compost .
Finally , backfill the trench .
Chrysler says it intends to backfill jobs vacated by the buyouts .
Some of the fluorite produced from the lead mines was used as backfill underground .
Her plans to make him jealous backfired on her when he started dating her best friend .
I was woken by the sound of a truck backfiring .
The artist himself did not paint the backgrounds to his pictures - they were done by his pupils .
He has photographed her against lots of different backgrounds .
They were filmed against a background of dark fir trees .
The book's cover has white lettering on a blue background .
The little figure that you can just see in the background of the photograph is me .
Compare
If you listen carefully to this piece of music , you can hear a flute in the background .
We could n't hear what they were saying on the tape - there was too much background noise .
These decisions have had to be made against a background of high unemployment .
Can you give me some background on (= information about the conditions that existed before ) the situation ?
Her worries about her job have faded into the background since she learned about her father's illness .
The school has students from many different ethnic/cultural/religious backgrounds .
They come from a privileged/wealthy background .
a background in publishing
Students are expected to do some background reading before the course starts .
The book provides background information on the history of the region .
What a wonderful backhand return !
Nadal has one of the finest backhands in the game .
Serve to his backhand .
Compare
a backhanded compliment
His backheel to Pessotto took two defenders completely out of the game .
He managed to backheel the ball into his own net .
If I go ahead with the plan , can I count on your backing ?
a backing track
She sang as part of an all-women backing group .
Compare
It 's strong cloth - it might be useful as (a) backing .
the 60s backlash against bourgeois materialism
the backlash against feminism
a publisher's backlist
His trophies were proudly displayed in a backlit cabinet .
I 've got a huge backlog of work to do .
It 's a frame backpack with a belt and padded shoulder straps .
We backpacked around Thailand .
to go backpacking
a backpacking trip/holiday
Some types of bike have brakes that you operate by backpedalling .
As soon as I said I thought she was wrong , she started backpedalling .
He said he 'd help , but now he 's starting to backpedal ( on his promise ) .
figurative It is expected that the former CEO will be a backseat driver (= have a controlling influence on what happens ) on the company's board .
After cycling for the whole day , my backside was very sore .
On the backside of this building you will find a door .
Do not write anything on the backside of your answer book .
There was a party after the ceremony where much drinking and backslapping went on .
My diet was going well , but I 've been backsliding a little recently .
We went backstage after the show to meet the actors .
The organizers say it 's a fair contest but who knows what goes on backstage ?
She grew up in the backstreets of Boston .
Can you do backstroke ?
We went the wrong way and had to backtrack till we got to the right turning .
[ + speech ] " All right , " he backtracked , " It 's possible that I was mistaken . "
The officers were forced to backtrack on their statements .
She refused to backtrack from her criticisms of the proposal .
We 're going to need some professional backup for this project .
The party is going to be outdoors , so we 'll need to organize somewhere as a backup in case it rains .
Remember , your colleagues are your backup system when things go wrong .
Before we leave work each day , we make a backup of all the records we have entered into the computer that day .
The department's backup disks are all stored in a different building .
He 's a backup for the Dallas Cowboys .
Beyoncé's backup dancers
When he was a child , his teachers thought he was backward (= unable to learn as much as most children ) .
People still think of it as a backward country/region/area (= one without industry or modern machines ) .
She left without a backward glance .
He did a fantastic backward somersault .
The business is rapidly losing money because of their backward-looking ideas .
I walked backwards towards the door .
He took a step backwards to allow her to pass .
He began counting backwards : " Ten , nine , eight ... "
Compare
The breakdown in negotiations will be seen as a step backwards .
Paul paced anxiously backwards and forwards .
The waterskier was caught in the backwash from a motorboat .
The economic and political backwash of the war is still being felt .
We tied the boat up in a quiet backwater overnight .
He grew up in a rural backwater .
Compare
The house has a small backyard , surrounded by a high brick wall .
The kids were playing in the backyard .
a bacon sandwich
a slice/rasher of bacon
a bacterial infection
an illness caused by bacteria in drinking water
The bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae causes about a third of some 3,000 annual meningitis cases .
Our holiday was spoiled by bad weather .
We 've just had some very bad news .
I had a very bad night (= did not sleep well ) last night .
Watch out - he 's in a bad mood (= being unpleasant to everyone ) .
She 's just a bad loser (= she is unpleasant when she loses ) .
The company has been getting a lot of bad publicity (= negative things have been written or said about it ) recently .
The lines were so bad (= unpleasantly long ) that I did n't bother waiting .
The company's financial situation is looking pretty bad at the moment .
The damage caused by the storm was nowhere near as / nothing like as bad (= not as serious ) as we 'd feared it might be .
Breathing in other people's cigarette smoke is bad for you (= has a harmful effect on your health ) .
This is a bad (= not convenient or suitable) time for me to talk . Can I call you back later ?
" How are things ? " " Not too bad , thanks . "
He was best in his age group - not bad , eh ?
Knowing that I hurt her makes me feel really bad .
I feel bad about letting them down .
Things have gone from bad to worse .
The plumber did a bad job on the repairs .
Are the company's current difficulties a result of bad (= harmful) luck or bad (= of low quality ) judgment ?
He has some very bad habits .
In some parts of the world , it is considered bad manners to pick up food with the left hand .
He was sent home from school for bad behaviour .
That remark was in pretty bad taste , was n't it ?
I 'm very bad at cooking (= can not do it very well ) .
There are a lot of bad people in the world .
He has his faults but he 's not a bad person .
More examplesHe 's been keeping bad company . The difficulty of finding suitable workers led to a number of bad characters being recruited by the company . He 's not a bad guy , just a misguided one . She was in with a bad lot . I've done some bad things in my time .
She ca n't walk up all those steps , not with her bad leg !
a bad cough
We 'd better eat this chicken before it goes bad .
He needs the money real bad .
My arm hurts so bad .
She only ever sees the bad in people .
There has been bad blood between the two families for years .
The bank expects to lose £ 703 million of last year's profits as a result of bad debts .
They acted in bad faith by selling her a car that they knew had problems .
There are laws prohibiting bad-faith conduct by insurers .
Compare
I 'd like to complain to the neighbours about the noise , but I do n't want to cause any bad feeling ( between us ) .
I 'm having a bad hair day .
There 's far too much bad language on television .
He 's not a bad lot - just a bit wild .
Stop bad - mouthing him all the time .
She 's very bad - tempered in the mornings !
" They 've just run out of tickets . " "Oh, bad luck ! "
He plays a 21-year old badass who gets into a lot of trouble .
This car is pure badass .
You look badass !
In the old cowboy movies , the baddies always get beaten in the end .
Everyone at the conference wore a badge with their name on .
Stop badgering me - I 'll do it when I 'm ready .
[ + into + -ing verb ] She 's been badgering me into doing some exercise .
[ + to infinitive ] Every time we go into a shop , the kids badger me to buy them sweets .
Synonym
She was badly affected by the events in her childhood .
Fortunately , none of the passengers was badly hurt / injured in the crash .
I thought he was treated very badly .
The event was really badly organized .
I thought he behaved very badly .
Their children are extremely badly behaved .
He needs the money really badly .
They are badly in need of help .
They 're not badly off but they do n't have much money to spare .
It 's bad when bae does n't reply to your texts . [ as form of address ] Hey, bae . What 's up ?
She was completely baffled by his strange behaviour .
a paper/plastic bag
a shopping bag (= a bag in which shopping is carried )
a bag of apples /nuts
Do n't eat that whole bag of (= the amount the bag contains ) sweets at once .
I had n't even packed my bags (= put the things I need in suitcases/bags ) .
Silly old bag !
Oxford bags
Shall I bag ( up ) those tomatoes for you ?
[ + two objects ] Bag us some decent seats / Bag some decent seats for us if you get there first , wo n't you ?
See also
He 's the bookies ' favourite to bag an Oscar .
He is eager to bag his fifth victory of the season .
We bagged three summits in one day .
I hate these trousers - they bag ( out ) at the back .
Bag that old gray sweater , and wear something more colorful .
Stop bagging her ( out ) - she 's doing her best .
The child was just a bag of bones when we found her .
A thousand pounds is a mere bagatelle to him .
an onion bagel
a bagful of shoes/socks/shirts
How many pieces of baggage do you have ?
