FACTSHEET WHAT IS AIDS ?
AIDS ( Immune Deficiency Syndrome ) is a condition caused by a virus called HIV ( Immuno Deficiency Virus ) .
This virus affects the body 's defence system so that it can not fight infection .
How is infection ?
through unprotected sexual intercourse with an infected partner .
through infected blood or blood products .
from an infected mother to her baby .
It is not transmitted from :
giving blood/mosquito bites/toilet seats/kissing/from normal day-to-day contact
How does it affect you ?
The medical aspects can be cancer , pneumonia , sudden blindness , dementia , dramatic weight loss or any combination of these .
Often people are rejected by family and friends , leaving them to face this chronic condition .
Did you know ?
there is no vaccine or currently available .
10 million people worldwide are infected with HIV .
you can be infected for between 10-15 years without realising it .
7 out of 10 people are heterosexual .
women are twice as at risk from infection as men .
16 , 000 infections ( it is probable that there are between 40-60 , 000 people actually ) .
there are nearly 5 , 000 cases of AIDS , of which nearly 3 , 000 have already died .
1 in 500 Londoners are believed to be infected .
The World Health Organisation 40 million infections by the year 2000 .
`` We are just at the beginning of the worldwide epidemic and the situation is still very unstable .
The major impact is yet to come . ``
- Professor Jonathan Mann , former director of the WHO Global AIDS Programme and ACET 's International Adviser .
ACET - Practical home , schools education and training - 081 840 7879
Mildmay Hospital , Hackney Road , London E2 7NA - Hospice - 071 739 2331
Catholic AIDS - Spiritual , practical and financial support - P O Box 646 , London E9 6QP
National AIDS Helpline - Counselling and confidential advice - 0800 567 123
Bureau of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine - Overseas development - 071 636 8638
Society - Serving the interests of Haemophiliacs - 071 928 2020
- HIV and drugs - 071 430 2341
Immunity - HIV and legal issues - 081 968 8909
FACTSHEET PUT THE BACK IN FUNDRAISING !
money for your charity can be fun .
You can do it your own or you can get together with family and friends .
There is no limit to the number of ways to raise money .
Whether the final total is & pound ; 5 or & pound ; 5 , 000 , it is all very much .
Below I 've listed some ideas which many people have already carried out .
None of them is new and they are all straightforward .
- Why not have a out ?
I did and I was absolutely amazed at how much stuff I sold and the kind of things people .
It can be fun as well .
- A bit like a car sale but for clothes and it happens indoors .
You need to involve your friends collecting jumble .
Do n't plan selling too much at more than 10p an item .
- For the keen runner , why not get your next full or half marathon .
- At your local club or church why not put on an evening for young people ?
It 's hard work but very rewarding .
- Not for the faint-hearted .
But why not pluck up the courage to do what you 've always wanted ?
It 's all in a good cause .
HOLD A COFFEE MORNING or BAKE CAKES
to sell to work colleagues .
KIDDIES ' SPONSORED SWIM
Organise a SPONSORED WALK OR
for your church or youth club .
SPONSORED DISCO or FOOTBALL 5-A-SIDE .
If I can help further please do not hesitate to contact me on 081 840 7879 Peter Fabian Director of Fundraising
FACTSHEET BECOMING AN ACET HOME
About ACET 's Home
Many people with AIDS have to spend long periods of time in hospital unless there is someone at home who can help and look after them .
ACET volunteers work as part of a team and provide in many different ways to ensure that people do n't spend time in hospital unnecessarily .
What do ACET volunteers do ?
clients to and from hospital
including collection of prescriptions
How much time to I to give ?
The simple answer is as much or as little as you feel able to give .
Many of our existing volunteers have families and jobs and are often very busy .
You do n't have to make a firm commitment but obviously we like you to give us some idea of your availability .
This is so we can respond effectively to the needs of our clients .
Do I need any training ?
Yes - but you are not to be a nurse .
You will be asked to complete an application and subsequently to attend an ACET training course one evening a week for six weeks .
The subjects covered will include :
Medical Aspects of HIV/AIDS
What if I find certain issues or situations difficult ?
Your course leader will be available to help you .
You are also asked to keep your church leaders of your involvement so that they can ensure you are adequately supported .
every client you are asked to call the office so that you can report how the visit went .
We also hold regular meetings of volunteers to discuss issues of concern and encourage one another .
Volunteers visiting an ACET client have immediate access to professional through our 24 hour on call facility .
I would like to be an ACET so what do I do now ?
or write to Christine Catlin or Janet Sutton and ask for an application .
ACET P O Box 1323 London W5 5TF Tel : 081 840 7879
Newsletter AIDS , EDUCATION AND TRAINING No. 7
CLIFF RICHARD and Head of Salvation Army , General Eva Burrows are the first patrons of ACET .
In the charity 's Ealing offices , , with BBC newsroom South East television cameras in attendance , cut a cake to help celebrate ACET 's third birthday during June .
After a short interview with the BBC , Cliff went to meet ACET client Tony Chapman at his home , together with HIV Community Nurse , Sue Lore .
A trip to an ACET AIDS education class at Abbeylands School , Addlestone in Surrey , completed Cliff 's visit .
Cliff said , `` I am pleased to support ACET in the world they are doing .
`` I believe it is especially important that ACET represents the Church working in the line to provide real and practical support .
So often Christians are criticised for not getting involved . ``
with Dr Patrick Dixon , Director of ACET
ACET opened its Glasgow Home service in late June after receiving confirmation of a grant from the Greater Glasgow Health to fund the work .
The Hospital Social work team and the AIDS Unit were particularly helpful in identifying the need for this service .
Home Coordinator , Margaret Gillies , currently has a team of 20 volunteers from a variety of churches providing practical help to a number of clients already referred .
Strathclyde Regional Council may provide further funding and consideration is being given to the possible employment of a part-time nurse .
Most Churches Unprepared for Aids
`` Most churches are completely unprepared for the shock of finding an established member of the congregation is infected with HIV or with AIDS , even though this is increasingly common . ``
ACET Director , Dr Patrick Dixon , recently the National Symposium on Teenage Sexuality at Swanwick .
The conference was attended by 300 church youth leaders and school workers from across the UK .
Dr Dixon said , `` With up to 20 years from infection to illness , we just have to ask how many of our congregation have been added during that time ?
Three-quarters of the AIDS problem is in London and much of the rest in Scottish cities .
Churches in these areas particularly need to be informed , involved in community care and Christian workers seeking to prevent new HIV infection in schools . ``
The Symposium how the Church can communicate more effectively to young people today for the benefit of their safety and emotional health .
`` Many churches are responding .
Those involved with ACET are now helping provide home for in four of all those with AIDS in the UK and up to 4 , 000 school pupils a month are now education on the subject .
Both programmes are the largest of their kind in the country . ``
ACET is currently offering speakers to inform , motivate , and .
Churches wanting a speaker should contact the West London offices on 081 840 7879 .
The third annual report for 1990/91 , subtitled `` Bringing it Home `` was published on 21 June this year .
Official figures suggest that ACET provided at home for up to one in four of all those who died of AIDS in the UK last year .
24 , 000 pupils were also seen by ACET educators .
ACET will shortly be opening a new office in the east end of London to serve clients in North and East London .
Kay Hopps will have responsibility for the running of the office .
The numbers of men , women and children covered by home with 24 hour on call has doubled in a year .
ACET South ( based in Portsmouth ) will move into its new accommodation during July .
Purchased by the Portsmouth and South East Hampshire Area Health Authority , the building will be home to two other AIDS charities .
The team is for numbers ill on the South Coast , including Brighton .
The 24-page full colour schools booklet `` HIV - It 's Your Choice `` is now available to members of the public at a price of 50p each .
Last year ACET educators saw 24 , 500 pupils in face to face presentations .
The ACET Conference in May at the Ealing YMCA was well attended by both staff and volunteers from London , the South East , Northern Ireland , Scotland , Romania and Uganda .
UK Director and organiser of the Conference , Peter Johnson , said , `` For many , the day provided a reaffirmation of the vision for ACET and a marvellous sense of unity .
It was the first time our national and international network had gathered together in one place and made us all realise just how much the work has grown . ``
Three visitors from Frankfurt , Germany , recently visited ACET 's offices before returning home to begin a similar service , Christian AIDS ( CAH ) .
Interest was expressed in all of the organisational aspects of home including , equipment loans and the volunteer programme .
Like ACET , will give both medical and practical help to AIDS patients in the home .
Letters to the Editor
Letters would be welcome .
Any contributions may be edited .
Please write to : THE EDITOR , ACET NEWSLETTER , P.O .
BOX 1323 , LONDON W5 5TF .
Be an ACET-Link for your Church
the number of people ill with AIDS increases so does the need for volunteers to care for them .
Over the last three years , our volunteers have provided much and to many hurt and lonely people .
The our volunteers provide can not be measured purely practical terms and their continuing contribution is vital if we are to provide an ongoing service .
In recognition of their importance and the need to train more volunteers , we want to develop links with individual churches .
To do this , we would like to recruit people who are willing to be an ACET-link in their church .
An ACET-link person , possibly an existing volunteer , would keep their church our work and encourage people to consider volunteers , with fundraising ideas and circulate newsletters .
An ACET-link will play a vital role as our work is growing so rapidly .
If you would like to know more about being an ACET-link , please contact Chris Catlin/Peter Glover on 081 840 7879 or write to ACET , PO Box 1323 , LONDON W5 5TF .
Peter Johnson UK Director
`` The population in general is very well educated about AIDS , `` says Anthony Kasozi , `` thanks to the commitment of the Government who have done well in awareness .
The need here is to convince people that they must change their behaviour .
We are seeking to find out what local people want , because they must own the themselves .
In this way , with a little money but much commitment , a great deal can be done . ``
HIV Community Nurse , Sue Lore , takes an education class with the help of patron , Patron .
with AIDS by John Creedy
You can be perfectly well with HIV and at other times chronic debility makes it to do even the basic things .
In the early days the stigma of being HIV had driven away about 60 & percnt ; of my circle of friends .
Despite the publicity giving the facts surrounding the transmission of the disease , ignorance was such that they became afraid of normal social contact .
It soon became clear that I could no longer rely friends for help with everyday chores like and housework I needed it .
While deciding to stay as independent as possible , I contacted ACET who I knew provided practical care at home .
I had previously spent about two years asking local social services and friends for help and not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down .
There was also the question of my own exhaustion .
Even a weekly visit by a local authority home help - when it was finally arranged - was not enough .
provided by ACET volunteers eventually go the flat ship-shape again and life became easier .
Illnesses , including chronic muscle debility , herpes , tremors and eye infections , have come and gone .
Recently I have experienced serious and potentially fatal fevers .
Basically every day is an effort , that 's the reality , and there 's a great tendency to want life to be as it was .
I have far fewer friends and I am partially sighted , which makes me a lot more vulnerable ; but whatever happens physically , I have always said that it was what happened mentally mattered .
Being aware of the stress and that many people and their families when AIDS or HIV is first diagnosed , I became involved in counselling .
I have also campaigned for the Government to give AIDS greater recognition , not as a disease affecting specific sectors of the community , but a social problem for which there must be adequate welfare provision .
Organisations like ACET this support to enable people like myself to retain maximum control and continue to live at home as independently as we can .
I have in recent years edited a self-help journal for people with AIDS , written for the national press and researched a variety of medical material for television .
Without the help of ACET and other direct service organisations and charities , I would not have been able to continue and maintain my independence .
By working co-operatively , long-term , with the people around me , I hope to continue for some time yet .
Director , Dr Patrick Dixon , was involved in numerous radio during June , in addition to his appearance on BBC Newsroom South East 's magazine programme as part of our third birthday celebrations .
Just before leaving to attend the Conference itself , Patrick a live broadcast on Radio 4 's `` Today Programme `` .
Two BBC World Service at the end of the week with Patrick giving his assessment of the Conference .
Patrick 's attendance at the Florence Conference was sponsored by the pharmaceutical firm , NAPP .
Congratulations to Brian Harris , former Manager of the Education Department , on his new appointment as Manager of a housing project for the Shaftesbury Society in Kilburn .
Brian was one of the very first members of the ACET team and will be greatly missed .
Denise Jones , responsible for grants and equipment loans , at the end June to develop her own business , the Beauty Clinic in Chiswick , West London .
Maurice Adams , formerly Deputy Director with responsibility for new developments in the UK and overseas , is now General Manager of Acet with responsibility for all ACET operations .
Rev J Powrie , 22 years Minister of Chalmers - Parish Church , Church of Scotland , has recently been appointed as member of ACET 's Advisory Council .
The need for volunteers from churches , particularly in London and Scotland in the day-time , is an ever constant one .
Manager , Chris Catlin , says , `` We have traditionally recruited volunteers from across the denominations including , , , and Churches .
After spending some time , often years , with us , people on to other things and we need to fill the gaps . ``
The training programme itself covers key subjects including : - death and - sex and sexuality - responses and reactions - medical facts - grief and loss
In London , training programmes will now take place every September and February and will require an individual 's time for one evening a week a six-week programme .
Maurice Adams , ACET Manager , and Overseas Development Worker , Kate Bristow , have recently returned from Romania .
Kate has been overseeing an AIDS education course in Constanta together with a local representative , Ana .
The attitude of many Romanian health professionals was summed up recently in the words of one doctor in Constanta who said `` Health Education is the only `` vaccine `` we have to fight against HIV . ``
Kate Bristow commented , `` It is a real privilege for ACET to be asked to work with such people as they look for ways to develop an effective strategy . ``
Professor Jonathan Mann , former director of the WHO Global AIDS Programme , has given his backing to ACET by joining Dr Everett Koop the former US Surgeon General , as an International Adviser .
Speaking recently at the 7th International AIDS Conference in Florence he said :
`` I am delighted to support ACET 's developing international AIDS programme .
Ten years the discovery of AIDS we are entering into a new era in the global pandemic , with growing concern about our ability to confront it successfully .
New approaches are needed , with close partnerships between local communities , non-government agencies , governments and international organisations .
I believe ACET has an important part to play this process . ``
He added , `` We are just at the beginning of the worldwide epidemic and the situation is still very unstable .
The major impact is yet to come .
Over the next decade a global approach is going to be essential . ``
Superintendent Trobridge of Ealing Police Station a cheque for & pound ; 400 to Karen Russell , ACET Manager .
The money was part of the proceeds from the sale of unclaimed property sold under the Police Property Act .
ACET NEWS AIDS EDUCATION & amp ; TRAINING
ACET IN THE COMMUNITY
MAJOR in the pattern of HIV disease occurring in the capital which are not obvious from published statistics .
The biggest changes are in the length of time people ill with the disease are now and in the nature of the illnesses themselves .
Between 1984 and 1986 those with AIDS died average some ten months after diagnosis .
Between 1987 and 1989 , however , the survival period has already doubled to twenty moths .
Patients more recently are probably surviving an average of longer than two years .
The `` cause of death `` figures are also beyond all recognition .
The classical pneumocystis pneumonia used to be the final event in the disease almost half ( 46 & percnt ; ) of those with AIDS in 1986 .
While pneumonia is still a common occurrence , current preventative measures and improved treatment have reduced the numbers dying as a result to only 3 & percnt ; by 1989 .
This change has big implications for health planners and for those for people with AIDS .
With the pneumonias , the interval between early chest infection and death could be as little as 12 hours in someone outwardly fit and well .
Planning was often difficult or impossible and the need for home care was less .
The commonest cause of death is now advanced 's ( a kind of cancer ) .
Slowly internal lesions can produce great difficulties in the lung and the gut , causing shortness of breath and other problems .
Internal 's can be very painful .
As London 's largest independent provider of community care for people ill with AIDS , staff at ACET have seen these changes unfold the home .
While numbers of new AIDS cases officially each month have remained relatively steady , there has been a big increase in those needing medical and nursing advice at home with a 24-hour on back up .
The numbers with pain are also higher .
Those at home often need opiates ( morphine-like medicines ) for pain , while one in five will also need a special pump , especially if they are too weak to swallow .
The picture then has changed and we now need to plan for numbers of those with chronic illnesses needing community care - not volunteers , although volunteers continue to have a vitally important role to play .
Professionally-based community care is here to stay and is increasingly needed , backed by access to respite and hospice beds and acute ward facilities .
`` Members of the London Home Team from i. to r. - Kay Hopps , Archie Ferguson , Cedria Clifton , Jackie Sears ( Team Manager ) , Sue Lore and Janet Sutton . ``
ACET 's Scottish Office was also featured on `` Songs of Praise `` on BBC1 .
Care-link units , to provide remote signalling of distress via the telephone systems , are currently on loan with seven clients in London .
Designed originally with the needs of the elderly in mind , those ill with HIV/AIDS at home are also finding them enormously valuable .
can be summoned from ACET or other services merely by pressing a button on a pendant worn the neck .
This can make all the difference to someone who feels unsafe at home or to partners or friends .
Referrals to ACET for Home in the London area have increased in the last six months by 50 & percnt ; .
At the rate of referral , numbers are more than set to double during the year .
Around 85 & percnt ; of those cared for in the capital are gay men , with an increasing number of women and children .
Referrals of African men and women heterosexually abroad are also .
ACET News aims to - inform Boroughs , Health Authorities , and voluntary agencies of the work of ACET in the community .
For more information about ACET 's Home please call us on 081 840 7879 and ask for Jackie Sears .
UK OPERATIONS DIRECTOR APPOINTED
Peter Johnson , 38 , has been appointed UK Operations Director , with responsibility for ACET 's existing operations and for new developments within the UK .
The rapid growth of ACET since its inception in 1988 has made the creation of this new post a priority .
`` I was impressed by the care given to our clients in London and elsewhere , `` explained Peter , `` and the lengths to which ACET staff go to try and meet the needs of clients .
I feel working in partnership with the client , and with other agencies , is the most effective way of ensuring the needs of our clients are met . ``
Peter studied astronomy at University College , London , and in accountancy for a short spell before deciding upon a career in .
He spent three years at Charing Cross Hospital School of before qualifying as a Registered Nurse in 1983 .
a medical ward and as a health visitor until in 1988 he became a Neighbourhood Nurse Manager for Wandsworth Health Authority .
`` I basically managed district nurses , health visitors , school and family nurses , `` he said .
Kay , an ACET nurse , visits a client to administer to help prevent him pneumocystis corinii pneumonia ( PCP ) .
The plight of children infected with HIV was recently highlighted by Princess Diana when she presented a report by the National Children 's Bureau to a London conference on the impact of AIDS on family life .
ACET already has experience in for children ill with the disease , particularly through its Scottish office .
In the experience of ACET staff and volunteers , practical care in the home not only benefits the HIV infected but the whole family , which can often mean three generations .
At least 60 & percnt ; of the individuals being cared for by ACET in Tayside also have children themselves .
Some of these children are , but those who are not are still affected by HIV .
ACET believes specialist and home is a vital factor in helping to keep families together and lessening the trauma when family members are diagnosed HIV positive .
Portsmouth and South East Hampshire Area Health Authority has recently purchased a building in Portsmouth for the use of AIDS agencies covering the South East Hampshire area .
ACET Home , which moves into the building in July , will share the offices with two other AIDS charities , P.A.L.S .
( Portsmouth AIDS ) and the Link Project .
The Health Authority has provided for the running of ACET 's office including volunteer co-ordinator , Anne Hutchins .
Hampshire County Council has provided & pound ; 20 , 000 to furnish the building .
provides counselling and general family support , the Link Project with drug-related problems and gives general advice , while ACET provides practical home not only to the Portsmouth area but also the South Coast .
with AIDS by John Creedy
TWO AND A HALF years ago I was diagnosed as being HIV positive .
It was no particular shock I found out ; I had expected the test to be positive .
I was a very happy gay man .
There was clearly a need to adapt my lifestyle , but playing the role of victim was never among my plans .
You can be perfectly well with HIV and at other times chronic debility makes it to do even the basic things .
In the early days the stigma of being HIV had driven away about 60 & percnt ; of my circle of friends .
Despite the publicity giving the facts surrounding the transmission of the disease , ignorance was such that they became afraid of normal social interaction .
It soon became clear that I could no longer rely friends for help with everyday chores like and housework I needed it .
Whilst resolving to stay at independent as possible , I contacted ACET who I knew provided practical care at home .
I had previously spent about two years asking local social services and friends for help and not having it happen , so my flat had become pretty run down .
There was also the question of my own exhaustion .
Even a weekly visit by a local authority home help when it was finally was not enough .
provided by an ACET eventually the flat ship-shape again and life became easier .
Illnesses , including chronic muscle debility , herpes , tremors and eye infections , have come and gone .
Recently I have experienced series and potentially fatal fevers .
Basically every day is an effort , that 's the reality , and there 's a great tendency to want life to be as it was .
I have far few friends and I am partially sighted , which makes me a lot more vulnerable ; but whatever happens physically , I have always said that it was what happened mentally mattered .
Being aware of the stress and pressures that many people and their families with AIDS or HIV is first , I became involved in counselling .
I have also campaigned for the Government to give AIDS greater recognition , not as a disease affecting specific sectors of the community , but a social problem for which there must be adequate welfare provision .
Organisations like ACET this kind of support to enable people like myself to retain maximum control and continue to live at home .
I have in recent years edited a self-help journal for people with AIDS , written for the national press and researched a variety of medical material for television .
Without the help of ACET and other similar organisations I would not have been able to continue and maintain my independence .
By working co-operatively , , with the people around me , I hope to continue for some time yet .
Maurice Adams , General Manager of ACET , has recently returned Uganda he has been discussing for projects with ACET 's African Director , Anthony .
Next year 's work has been partly funded by the charity TEAR Fund .
Following the running of an AIDS educational course for 60 people including doctors , nurses and teachers in Brasov , Romania , earlier this year , a follow-up day was held in April .
Alison Maunsell , ACET 's East Midlands regional co-ordinator based in Northampton , has been invited to join H.I.V. T.E.S.P.I. ( Training , Education , & amp ; Public Initiative ) , a forum run by the local health authority .
Alison will represent ACET and the interests of clients .
ACET 's London Home team will shortly be strengthened by the arrival of a new nurse , Catherine Murphy , to help manage the increasing number of referrals .
Catherine qualified in general at Dr Steeven 's Hospital , Dublin .
Midwifery training at Epsom & amp ; Surrey followed and she has recently completed a course in tropical nursing at the London Hospital for Tropical Diseases .
Catherine , who is on a three-month contract with ACET , is looking forward to for people with HIV/AIDS .
Letters to the Editor Letters would be welcome .
Any contributions may be edited .
Please write to : THE EDITOR , ACET NEWS , P.O .
BOX 1323 , LONDON , W5 5TF .
IN JANUARY 1988 a small group of 50 would-be volunteers in the Ealing YMCA to learn about AIDS .
This was the beginning of ACET .
Many of the first group completed a training course to provide practical help in the home for a small number of people ill with HIV/AIDS .
The first referrals came from Ealing , Acton and areas .
This was coordinated from the living room of a local doctor .
The remit of this group was to provide the highest standards of unconditional care to men , women and children ill at home with HIV/AIDS .
Within a short space of time referrals were regularly coming in .
In June 1988 ACET was officially launched as a registered charity .
Over the next six months this small group of professionals and volunteers practical care for 15 people living in or the Borough of Ealing .
To date ACET has provided professional care or practical help to over 400 individuals across London , excluding hardship and equipment loans .
In Ealing alone we have received over 30 referrals for Home .
It has always been ACET 's policy to work with and statutory and other voluntary organizations .
Likewise ACET has also involved other agencies on behalf of the client .
Both the Borough and Health Authority have supported the work of ACET in Ealing by being among the first to provide financial support .
ACET is currently working with the Health Authority to develop a service agreement for 1991/92 .
A Day in the Life of an ACET Volunteer
Monday 8.55am - I arrive at the office for what looks like a quiet day catching up on necessary office and telephoning some of our clients to see how they are .
There 's a message on the answerphone from Tony 's brother .
Tony has been unwell over the weekend .
One of the nurses rings back , discusses the situation and says she will ring the hospital and/or his GP to see what can be done .
I am asked if I can be on if transport is needed ?
9.32am - Diary - a general discussion of appointments and availability for the week follow with Janet , our Co-ordinator .
This includes nurses and volunteers .
At the moment it looks like my usual stint of on Thursday and on Friday are the main fixtures , but anything can happen before then .
10.10am - Still no decision about Tony .
We are now waiting for the specialist to phone back .
Meanwhile , another cry for help .
Westminster Hospital , say that Andrew , of their patients , needs to be admitted but they are unable to find transport as no ambulance is available .
No other organisation can help .
We agree to help and perhaps I can combine the two visits .
11.00am - Tony has been given an appointment at the local hospital .
I will be able to take him and continue into London to pick Andrew .
At least I 'll be able to have lunch first and not be munching my sandwich in a traffic .
1.04pm - Tony , and his Mum , are still getting ready to arrive .
He is not at all well , very breathless , and by the time we are in the care he is gasping for air .
1.05pm - Having left Tony and his Mum at his appointment , I set off in the direction of the A4 .
2.30pm - I arrive at Andrew 's house .
Although he is from a type of septicaemia , he is clearly having a good spell .
We make the most of this and scoot off to the hospital .
3.35pm - Arrive back at hospital no.1 .
Tony is to be admitted but & hellip ; wait for it & hellip ; to yet another hospital !
If I ca n't take him he will have a two-hour for an ambulance .
I 've heard of a pub & hellip ; but a hospital ?
4.00pm - We set off again ; this time via Tony 's home to collect a variety of possessions , finally arriving at hospital no.3 .
4.55pm - Tony is ushered into a side ward with three doctors and I stay outside with Mum .
The only problem is , she is Ugandan and speaks very little English , has no idea how to get home and has no money for transport .
I try to explain that , unlike her home country , she will not be staying in with him .
Nobody seems to have explained this to her , but finally she understands .
Her daughters have however been contacted so I agree to keep her company until they arrive .
5.45pm - They finally turn up .
As the doctors are still with Tony , I explain the position to the daughters and hand Mum over to them .
6.30pm - Home at last !
Of course , I still need to catch up on that necessary office , maybe tomorrow & hellip ;
is a full-time volunteer and one of national network of volunteers .
Both full- and part-time work is carefully organised according to the availability and skills of each volunteer .
All volunteers are carefully and trained .
What is ACET ?
ACET is a national and international AIDS charity with the following objectives :
To develop appropriate local responses to the global problem to HIV/AIDS
To provide professionally-based practical home to men , women and children at home with HIV/AIDS related illnesses .
To enable people who are ill with HIV/AIDS to live and die at home , if that is their wish , and appropriate to their needs .
To reduce the number of new HIV infections by giving young people the facts about AIDS .
AIDS Education and Training is a company limited by guarantee .
No. 2245302 and a registered charity No. 299293 .
Registered Office 318 St Paul 's Road , Duke Street , London N1 2LP .
HIV IT 'S YOUR CHOICE
Every day the virus causing AIDS is infecting more young people .
A friend can infect you without your knowing .
Once you 're infected the virus may destroy your natural defences for over 10 years without you realising .
And you an pass the infection again without .
There is no cure .
Once , you will - sooner or later - develop fullblown AIDS .
Friends or partners may soon be ill too .
The truth about AIDS
THE DOCTOR SAYS : `` HIV IS THE VIRUS THAT CAUSES AIDS . ``
HIV spreads between people who have sexual intercourse together , or who share needles when injecting drugs , or from mother to unborn child .
The most common way for the virus to spread is through unprotected sexual intercourse between two people , one of whom is .
You can be tested for infection at a special hospital clinic .
But remember you have to wait at least 12 weeks the possible infection for the test to be accurate .
THERE IS STILL NO CURE , NO VACCINE , NO WONDER DRUG , FOR HIV INFECTION OR AIDS .
YOU CA N'T CATCH HIV IN ANY OF THESE WAYS :
from a swimming pool
It 's very safe blood transfusions .
The chance of getting from a pint of blood is less than 1 in a million .
What is AIDS ?
Risky sex or dirty needles send HIV into the blood .
The virus , HIV , enters a `` soldier `` cell .
The soldier cell is programmed to make 1000s of new HIV particles .
Then it bursts , dies , and releases all these viruses into the blood .
Over the next 5-15 years , 1000s more soldier cells in the body get .
They make millions of viruses , before they too die off .
A new germ enters the body .
Now there are n't enough `` soldier `` cells to beat the germ , so it multiplies .
The body is seriously .
Hospital treatment is needed .
Some of the infection .
Most recover gradually .
Until the next germ arrives & hellip ;
`` I 've been to fifteen funerals of my friends this year .
They all died through AIDS .
Now it 's my turn . ``
Tom is a .
He 's infected with the virus causing AIDS , but does n't know .
( He could have been infected by 1 of at least 3 different ways .
What are they ? * )
* Answer : a .
He could be infected by sexual intercourse with an infected woman .
He could be infected by injecting drugs using a shared needle and syringe. c .
He could be infected by sex with a man or boy .
Tom has in turn infected Mary and Sam - he 's bisexual .
Still not knowing he 's , Tom marries Janet .
A year later , she 's infected too .
One day Tom is rushed to hospital with an unusual type of pneumonia .
Now the doctor tell he has AIDS .
Tom has infected at least 6 people - thought he has never even met Jane , Mark and Alan .
Over a period of time they will all be ill .
When sex can cause disease
Until recently it was reckoned that men and women on average had sex with 6 different people in their lifetime .
And those 6 partners with 36 more & hellip ;
So one person could receive sexually-transmitted diseases ( STDs ) from up to 40 , 000 other people !
`` But I 've only had sex with one person , `` you say .
It only needs one person to pass on an infection .
Sexually diseases ( STDs )
Each year in the UK hospital that more than 500 , 000 new cases of STDs .
These include gonorrhoea , syphilis , herpes , genital warts , chlamydia , and now , HIV infection .
Some of these diseases are becoming more and more resistant to treatment .
For most of them there is a cure ; but as yet not for HIV infection .
Sexually diseases can prevent women from children .
It 's possible that a sexually-transmitted infection might cause cancer of the cervix - especially if you 're under 20 .
in the groin , or a discharge from the genitals , can be a sign of some sexually diseases .
But often the person does n't notice anything .
If you 're worried that you 've recently take a risk , go to the special STD clinic at your local hospital .
They will check you , and treat you if necessary .
They 're used to these diseases .
Do n't hesitate to go .
Two experts discuss HIV in front of hugely-magnified projection of soldier cells .
Those coloured red are .
: It 's your choice
Close relationships that stop short of sexual intercourse .
Staying a till you meet the person - also a - and & hellip ; faithful to that one person for the rest of your life .
Also , neither of you ever injecting drugs .
with a condom that contains nonoxynol .
without a condom .
( How can you be your partner is n't ? )
Injecting drugs with a shared needle and syringe. ( 20 people can get infected in a single evening this way . )
Why do people get into drugs ?
`` It looks & hellip ; ``
There 's a party .
is getting passed round .
It can seem to say `` No `` !
Particularly if you 're not feeling confident .
`` I 'm curious & hellip ; ``
People mountains `` because they 're there `` .
They make parachute drops `` to see what it 's like `` .
Why not drugs ?
Because shooting your brain to bits is n't worth it !
`` I 'm looking for to life & hellip ; ``
Some people think drugs can help you find God , or discover the meaning of life .
OK - when you 're in a dazed state , drugs may make you think you understand it all .
But some drugs cause bad , disturbing flashbacks .
`` I ca n't cope with life & hellip ; ``
Many people who use drugs regularly find it difficult to exist a drug-free world .
They can become psychologically and hooked physically .
Even after `` drying out `` , they may feel strongly back into the drug world .
Drugs often make people feel they 're coping , when they 're really not coping at all .
Drugs are never cheap .
The effects never last and you always want more .
A paper round or weekend job does n't pay enough .
, cheating and lying become the only way to pay .
It 's always on your mind
You ca n't look your family in the eye .
Your friends begin to wonder what is .
You begin to hate yourself for what you 're doing .
Things are always on your mind .
Trying to feel better by using more never seems to work for long .
Drugs damage your body .
They can kill , and injecting drugs with a shared needle or can be the fastest way to get HIV - even if you only do it once .
Why you should say `` NO `` to drugs !
Once you 've taken the drug , your next decision could be influenced by that drug .
It could ruin your entire life .
Some drugs can hook you almost instantly .
If you say YES - could be your last free decision .
Drugs are no for real living .
They ca n't give you a purpose or in life .
No-one has the right to pressure you .
You 're always free to say NO !
`` I think I 'm in love & hellip ; ``
`` How do I know if I 've met the person ? ``
Most experts say that the happiest - and longest - relationships are based on close friendship and shared interests , not just strong feelings .
It take s lot more than just physical attraction to make a lasting , happy marriage .
Strong friendship takes time to build .
Many people say that sex is most when it expresses the commitment , , security and understanding of an exclusive friendship .
Friendship takes time .
In most happy marriages , husband and wife continue to make time to be with each other , and to understand each other .
How does AIDS affect you ?
We say someone has AIDS the virus has weakened the body so much certain new illnesses are .
For example , if the `` soldier `` cells are weakened , the chest can be infected .
It gets harder to breathe - and you may die .
Your gut can get infected , so you ca n't absorb the goodness in your food .
You lose weight , you feel very weak , and motions up to 10 times a day .
This person with the HIV infection has developed a sore mouth
Cancers may grow .
For example , there is a skin cancer called Kaposi 's sarcoma .
If you have AIDS , a germ can destroy your eyesight .
You can also find it hard to remember things , because germs are multiplying your brain .
People with AIDS are often well for long periods between times of illness .
A woman receiving urgent hospital treatment for AIDS .
How to keep healthy
Never share a needle or if you 're injecting drugs .
Always use a condom ( unless you 're absolutely sure your partner is not ) * .
This reduces the risk of infection - it does n't eliminate it .
Reduce the number of partners you have sex with .
at having only 1 sexual partner for the rest of your life
If you would like to take to someone about matters in this booklet , there is a free and confidential service : National AIDS HELPLINE : Freephone 0800 567 123
* How can you be sure ?
See page 12 .
Text & copy ; Patrick Dixon 1990 Three 's Company
First published 1990 by ACET P.O .
Box 1323 London W5 5TF 0 95 16386 0 2
Photographs by ZEFA UK Illustrations by Kate Taylor Designer P
Created by Three 's Company 12 Flitcroft Street , London WC2 Produced by Angus Hudson Ltd , Mill Hill , London Typeset by Watermark , Cromer in Great Britain
The cost of this booklet has been met by World in Need .
AIDS a caring response ACET
The chronic nature of AIDS means that people 's needs are many and .
For many a in hospital is in appropriate but they are often too weak or ill to care for themselves properly .
For some this makes hospitalization inevitable .
When someone is ill with AIDS they are often in pain .
Exhaustion is a permanent feature preventing the completion of even the most simple task .
Friends and family often reject them , leaving them free to face this chronic condition .
Without ACET 's practical support at home they could spend long periods of time in hospital unnecessarily .
The reality of AIDS is that the person can die at any time .
The person 's to know `` when and how `` is sometimes overwhelming .
One of the difficulties is that every person 's situation is different .
The medical aspects can be dementia , sudden blindness , loss of mobility , thrush , shingles , Kaposi 's sarcoma ( a type of cancer ) , weight loss , or any combination of these .
The person 's circumstances may change rapidly , from owner occupier to homelessness ; from a good income to on sickness ; from young and active to housebound and .
ACET 'S HOME SERVICE
ACET provides a dedicated Home service using a team of doctors and nurses backed by a trained and active network of over 400 volunteers .
The service includes pain and symptom control and nursing advice .
Volunteers , clean , and carry out DIY and many other tasks .
Our aim is to enable people to live and to die at home if that is their wish and appropriate to their needs .
The stigma still associated with AIDS means that often those who have the disease are .
ACET ca n't replace family and friends but can provide the practical care and to enable people with HIV/AIDS related illnesses to stay at home .
ACET through its schools education programme aims to reduce the number of new infections by giving young people the facts about AIDS .
We have already visited over 90 schools and reached 36 , 000 pupils .
ACET has already been drawn overseas and is working in Romania , Uganda and Tanzania , in partnership with local projects and in conjunction with government programmes .
Our assistance is offered sensitively and in a culturally appropriate way .
In the UK we have offices in London , Portsmouth , Northampton , Belfast , Dundee and Edinburgh .
If we are to continue providing unconditional practical care on such a wide level then we need your support today .
It costs about & pound ; 2 , 000 to care for someone between referral to ACET and their death .
This works out at the of & pound ; 10 per day .
All our programmes need your continued support .
Despite the fact that we do n't hear so much about AIDS these days the problems are .
If you would like to support the work of ACET then please complete the coupon and return it to us today .
AIDS a caring response
ACET - AIDS Education and Training is a national and international charity with offices in the UK , Romania and Uganda .
The charity was launched in June 1988 by Dr Patrick Dixon , a specialist in care for the dying and author or two books on the subject of AIDS .
Initial sponsorship was provided by World in Need , a charity which also helped Action Aid and Help the Aged .
ACET is committed to the unconditional care of all those who are ill with HIV/AIDS regardless of race , religion , lifestyle , sex , sexuality or any other factor .
We provide professionally based practical home to men , women and children who are ill at home with HIV/AIDS related illness .
Since launching our UK we have received over 1 , 200 requests for practical help .
This makes us the largest independent provider of practical home to people with AIDS in the UK .
Yes , I would like to make ACET 's Home service and Education Programmes more widely available and enclose a donation of :
GIVING TO ACET ?
This leaflet tries to answer some of the questions you might have on giving to ACET by covenant .
Is a the only method of tax-effective ?
A separate leaflet gives details of that scheme .
Is a covenant ?
A Deed of Covenant is a legal document which needs to be correctly drawn up and signed .
The law relating to covenants is quite complex but basically a covenant is a legally-binding document by which you transfer some of your income to a charity for a stated period .
ACET is a charity , with the Charity Commission under Registration Number 299293 .
As far as you are concerned , a covenant can be exceedingly simple .
There is a simple covenant form attached to this leaflet which is quite sufficient .
All you have to do is to fill in the details , including your name and and the amount you wish to give , and and the document in front of a witness .
You will also be asked to sign a Certificate of Deduction of Tax once a year confirming that you are a UK taxpayer .
This is all you need do for the tax benefit of covenant giving to work .
The value of your gift then increases by 33.3 & percnt ; in ACET 's hands , with the blessing of the Inland Revenue .
How long does a covenant have to last ?
At the time you enter a Deed of Covenant , the covenant should be capable of lasting for more than 3 years , and there should be the intention by you that it does so .
This is why the normal period for a charitable covenant is 4 years .
But it is possible to have a covenant which lasts for a longer period , provided that the period is specified in the Deed .
Do I need to go to a lawyer ?
How should I make my payments ?
You can pay by cash or by cheque .
If you pay by cash you will normally obtain a receipt as proof of payment .
Since you are agreeing to make regular payments over a number of years , it is probably easier for you to pay by Banker 's Order or Direct Mandate the payments will automatically be made from your bank .
There is a Banker 's Order form attached to this leaflet which you can use .
Make sure that the amount of the payment is the sum in the Deed of Covenant or the appropriate proportion of that sum if you wish to pay by or monthly instalments .
Also make sure that the Banker 's Order terminates with the final covenant payment .
Can I increase my covenant payment ?
The simple answer is No .
The amount of the annual covenant payment is specified in the Deed , and this is the sum is payable each year .
If you wish to increase your support , you can simply write a cheque for the additional amount you wish to give .
But this is not tax-effective and ACET will not benefit from the additional 33.3 & percnt ; in value .
You can use the GIFT AID scheme if you wish to give another & pound ; 600 or more .
Or you can enter into a second Deed of Covenant committing yourself to make payments under both the existing and new covenants .
a further alternative , you can enter into a Supplemental Deed .
This has the effect of cancelling your existing covenant and you commit yourself to making payments under the new covenant .
This procedure is perfectly acceptable provided that your new commitments are at least as great as the remaining commitments due under the orignal covenant .
Can I extend my covenant , if I wish to continue making payments over a longer period ?
Again the answer is no .
The length of the covenant will have been specified in the Deed , and it will terminate when the last annual payment has been made .
At that stage you can enter into a new covenant .
How much can I covenant ?
payments are made out of your income and are not payments .
If you are planning to give a particularly large sum , it is always more advantageous to give out of income by covenant than to give a sum .
You can spread the payments as long a period as you like .
Using the `` Deposited `` procedure you can pay the whole of the donation in one go , and we can give you full details of how to do this .
Alternatively , you could use the GIFT AID scheme ( see separate leaflet ) .
What happens if I do not pay UK Income Tax ?
This can cause problems , since you agree the terms of the covenant to make payments out of income from which has been deducted .
If you have not paid tax , then you would not be able to sign a Certificate of Deduction of Tax and ACET would not be able to reclaim tax on the covenant .
If ACET did somehow reclaim tax on the covenant then you would be liable to pay income tax to the Inland Revenue on the amount of your covenant payment .
So if you are not a UK taxpayer you are advised not to enter into Deeds of Covenant , but to make your regular charitable payments by simple Banker 's Order without any .
You may in fact find that you do pay some tax in the UK .
Which spouse should enter into the covenant ?
Since 6th April 1990 , married couples have been taxed independently , and each spouse is responsible for tax on his/her own income .
If you do not pay income tax , but your spouse does , you should not enter into a Deed of Covenant on your own .
Either you should ask your spouse to enter into the covenant or you could enter into a Joint Deed of Covenant signed both you and your spouse .
In either event your spouse should actually make the covenant payments , not you .
This Higher Rate Tax Relief will save 20 & percnt ; of the cost of the covenant payments .
FOR UK TAX PAYERS
Can I backdate a covenant to cover donations I have already made ?
The answer is No .
A covenant is a legally document to make regular donations , and such donations must be made under the terms of an existing Deed of Covenant for tax to be reclaimable .
Thus , the first payment should be or after the date on which the Deed of Covenant is signed .
You can not simply draw up a covenant ( or a Deposited Agreement ) to cover a donation you have already made in the hope that ACET can obtain tax advantage on the sum given .
What happens if I have difficulty in to make payments ?
If this unlikely situation arises , you should discuss the problem with us .
Although ACET , like any charity , does not have the power to release you from the agreement it is likely to be sympathetic .
For instance we can suggest ways of rescheduling the payments over a longer period .
Whatever happens , any tax relief obtained on donations you have already made will not be lost .
It is possible to include in the wording of the Deed that the covenant will cease if certain conditions occur - for example , if you become unemployed or your income below a certain level .
But , unless you are considering a particularly large donation , it is unlikely that you would need to include any complicated form of wording .
The Inland Revenue will not accept `` `` conditions which would effectively enable you to terminate the covenant of your own volition .
GIVING TO ACET BY GIFT AID
This leaflet tries to answer some of the questions you might have on giving to ACET through the Gift Aid scheme .
What is Gift Aid ?
Gift Aid is a scheme which gives tax relief for `` one-off `` contributions to charity and it came into force on 1st October 1990 .
Until then an individual could obtain income tax relief for a gift to charity only if the gift was made under a Deed of Covenant .
How does Gift Aid ?
The mechanism of Gift Aid is very simple .
Provided the gift is at least & pound ; 600 it will be regarded as having been paid net of basic rate tax .
The charity is able to recover the basic rate tax `` `` and the donor can , if appropriate , obtain higher rate tax relief on his payment .
Say , for example , you pay & pound ; 750 to ACET under Gift Aid .
The payment is equivalent to a gross sum of & pound ; 1 , 000 .
ACET an claim repayment of & pound ; 250 so it received the full & pound ; 1 , 000 .
If you pay tax at the higher rate you will personally obtain further relief of 15 & percnt ; on the gross figure , so making the cost of the payment to you & pound ; 600 .
( The tax rates cited are those in force in 1990/91 ) .
The to the working of Gift Aid is a certificate which must be signed by the donor .
Without that certificate , the charity can not obtain the repayment of the basic rate tax and the donor can not get higher rate relief .
In the above example the gross amount of the gift was & pound ; 1 , 000 , so the donor would have to certify that he would be tax of at least & pound ; 250 .
This last point must not be overlooked and may prevent large capital being passed under Gift Aid ( but see 6. below ) .
What are the advantages of Gift a Deed of Covenant ?
There are several differences :
To be effective for tax a Deed of Covenant has to turn for a period capable to exceeding three years .
The intention of a Gift Aid scheme is to encourage giving without the donor being tied to a particular charity for this length of time .
Under Gift there are no formalities at the time of the gift , just a cheque or gift to the charity .
The certificate on form R190 ( SD ) must be completed but this can be done at any time and amounts to little more than a claim procedure .
With a payment under covenant , The Deed of Covenant has to be filled in before a payment is made .
This applies particularly to self-employed persons .
But to gain the advantages of the Gift Aid certain conditions have to be complied with .
What are the conditions to Gift Aid ?
Only payments of cash of at least & pound ; 600 fall within the scope of Gift Aid .
Cash includes cheque payments , transfers and card payments .
Thus the transfer of an asset to a charity e.g. a work of art , will not qualify ( although there are other ways for a charity to obtain tax relief on the gift of an asset ) .
Nor will it be possible to make a regular contributions below the & pound ; 600 ( though see 5. below ) .
A payment only qualifies under Gift Aid if it is a `` gift `` .
Thus it must be made absolutely with no conditions about repayment .
Gift Aid may not be used by a donor as a means of writing of a debt or loan to him by the charity .
Any benefit enjoyed by the donor or a `` connected person `` as a consequence of making a gift under Gift Aid must not exceed the lower of & pound ; 250 or 2 & frac12 ; & percnt ; of the value of the gift .
A `` connected person `` broadly speaking means any close relative .
Not connected with acquisition of property .
A payment will not qualify under Gift Aid if it is made to enable the charity to purchase a property , or other assets , from the donor or from a `` connected person `` .
The donor must be resident in the United Kingdom at the time that the gift is made .
If a to make a tax effective gift out of UK source income he should use a Deed of Covenant .
and maximum amounts .
The donation which an individual can make under the Gift Aid is & pound ; 600. the total donations which an individual may make under Gift Aid in any tax year must not exceed & pound ; 5 , 000 , 000 .
What if I wish to give small amounts regularly a period ?
Payments qualify for tax relief under gift only if the donation is for & pound ; 600 or more .
If you wish to give small amounts regularly , e.g. monthly , you could accumulate the money in a separate account and then convert this to a gift to ACET every time the amount reaches & pound ; 600 .
In this way your gift to ACET will qualify for Gift Aid relief even though the monthly payments would be too small to do so .
Thus if you set aside & pound ; 25 per month it would take two years to accumulate the & pound ; 600 minimum for the Gift Aid scheme .
If for any you wanted to give each monthly payment to ACET , we could hold the money in an account in your name until the amount the & pound ; 600 threshold .
would be needed with the wording any such scheme and ACET can give you more details about this .
What if I wish to give a sum of capital or a sum in excess of my annual taxable income ?
This is quite separate from Gift Aid and details can be supplied on request .
What happens if I do not pay UK income tax ?
This can cause problems because if you do not pay tax then you will not be able to sign the Certificate on form R190 ( SD ) and ACET would not be able to re-claim basic rate on the payment .
If ACET did somehow reclaim tax on the payment then you would be liable to pay income tax to the Inland Revenue on the amount of your Gift Aid payment .
So if you are not a UK taxpayer you are advised not to make a payment under the Gift Aid scheme but to make a straight payment by cash or cheque .
Which spouse should make the Gift Aid payment ?
Since 6th April 1990 , married couples have been taxed independently , and each spouse is responsible for tax on his/her own income .
If you do not pay income tax but your spouse does , then your spouse should make the Gift Aid payment .
LEAVING A LEGACY TO ACET
Why should I make a ?
If I do n't make a , then the distribution of what you possess when you die may not be as you would wish .
Many people wrongly assume that all they have automatically goes to their loved ones .
This is n't necessarily so and by neglecting to make a valid , legal families put at the security and future of their nearest and dearest .
Also , by making a proper Will you could well save your dependants from paying an unnecessary amount of inheritance tax ( death duties ) .
Moreover , death is a time of great stress to those you love most .
Not to have made a can only add to that stress .
How do I make a ?
There is nothing complicated about it .
A is simply a clear statement about how your money and possessions are to be divided when you die .
But do not make without the advice of a solicitor .
He will help you draw up accurately what you need to say .
He will help you to observe the legal requirements and to name Executors to carry out your instructions , to appoint guardians if necessary and to cancel any previous Wills .
He will advise you on the inheritance your estate might incur and ways in which this may be reduced .
He will be able to remind you of beneficiaries you might otherwise forget .
Who will deal with my estate I die ?
It is most important to appoint at least one Executor when you make your .
It is in fact advisable to name more than one Executor in case of them dies before you .
Choose people you know and and with whom you can share the details of your affairs .
A solicitor or accountant can act as an Executor if you so .
It does n't matter if your Executor stands to benefit from the .
How can I reduce the amount of inheritance payable on my estate ?
At present , the first & pound ; 128 , 000 of any estate is free of inheritance tax .
Anything this amount is , basically , liable to inheritance tax at 40 & percnt ; .
There are exemptions for gifts to spouses and to charity .
Of course , taking account of the value of a house and its contents and personal savings and investments it is not surprising that a great many people have estates that exceed the inheritance tax threshold .
However , a gift to ACET is completely free of inheritance tax , due to the fact that ACET is a charity .
Money is otherwise destined for the Inland Revenue can instead go to ACET .
And & pound ; 400 of tax can be saved for every & pound ; 1 , 000 you give .
( correct as at Feb. 1991 ) .
Let 's say that your estate is worth & pound ; 140 , 000 , net of liabilities .
As this is the inheritance tax threshold , it would bring a tax bill of & pound ; 4 , 800 .
By leaving & pound ; 5 , 000 to ACET , however , the taxable value of your estate is reduced to & pound ; 135 , 000 and this would give a tax saving of & pound ; 2 , 000 .
What form of words should I use for a legacy to ACET ?
`` & hellip ; the sum of & pound ; `` .
`` & hellip ; all the residue of my estate `` .
`` one share of the residue of my estate `` .
`` And I declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other proper officer of ACET shall be a sufficient discharge to my Executors `` .
LONDON HOME AIDS EDUCATION & amp ; TRAINING 081 840 7879
WHAT IS ACET HOME ?
In London we have a team of 4 nurses up by 2 doctors .
Whether you need medical or nursing advice or practical support in the home we can help .
Our nurses have been extensively trained in symptom , home and HIV/AIDS related issues .
If you refer for our service you will be visited by one of the team who will discuss your needs with you .
This means that you can decide your own care .
ACET volunteers are available to help whenever you need them , as long as you make arrangements with our volunteer coordinator and give us as much notice as possible .
ACET volunteers carry out the following tasks as well as many others :
In an emergency you can reach an ACET doctor or through our 24 hour on call facility .
This means you can get professional any time of the day or night , and at weekends .
We also have a limited number of telephones for installation in individual homes .
These enable you to call for help from anywhere in your house or .
This can bring security and peace of mind to those who are ill but their own .
Medical Equipment ACET can loan medical equipment after consultation with your doctor .
For information about our home service Janet Sutton on 081 840 7879
DOES ACET 'S SERVICE COST ME ANYTHING ?
We are given some financial support from the government but this doe all our costs and we therefore depend on gifts from trusts , companies and individuals .
If you would like to help us financially why not ask one of our Home team for details .
ACET recognises that people can have needs in many areas .
We are committed to the practical care of all those who are ill with AIDS/HIV regardless of race , religion , lifestyle , sex , sexuality or any other factor .
Our trained workers find that some of those we care for want to talk emotional and spiritual issues .
ACET is a church-based organisation whose concern is practical care rather than counselling , and so these areas are only covered if they are raised by our clients .
HOW CAN I BENEFIT FROM ACET 'S SERVICES
To be eligible for ACET Home Care you must be HIV positive and require assistance because of this .
Once you have decided you would like practical help from ACET just 081 840 7879 and ask for Home .
If appropriate one of our specialist nurses will then arrange to come and see you to discuss your practical needs and see how ACET can help .
CAN I REFER TO ACET EVEN IF I AM USING OTHER SERVICES ?
ACET works with partners , family , friends and other voluntary and statutory organisations to ensure that people get all the care they need the way that they need it .
We work closely with GP 's and clinics to ensure co-operation and efficiency for every situation .
IS ACET 'S SERVICE CONFIDENTIAL ?
Our service is completely confidential and only with your permission do we liaise with others involved in your case .
WHAT DO OTHERS SAY ?
`` One of the nurses has been coming in to give me injections every day .
They 've liaised with other organisations to make sure I 've got somebody coming in , even if it 's only to make me something to eat .
I do n't know what I 'd do with them . ``
Tony C London W4
WHAT DO I DO NOW ?
Janet Sutton during office hours if you would like to know more about us , and how we might be able to help you .
The numbers is : Wandsworth Office :
WHAT IS ACET ?
We are a national charity , in 1988 , to providing at home for men , women and children with AIDS/HIV related illnesses .
This leaflet explains how ACET Home in London would help you , or someone you know .
A CHRISTIAN RESPONSE TO AIDS AIDS EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Why do we need a Christian response to AIDS ?
AIDS is the biggest health we have had to face this century .
Already more children may be with AIDS than from famine and 11 million are carrying the virus HIV , 1 in 250 of all adults worldwide .
AIDS touches areas of sickness , death and personal behaviour .
It brings out prejudice and , and people with the disease are often and rejected .
Meanwhile health campaigns have largely failed so far to change behaviour .
The church should be able to respond to these urgent needs more effectively than any other group and provide clear leadership .
The church can give care and compassion to those affected by AIDS and prevent infection .
World Health Organisation figures .
Volunteers Provide Transport Housework Collect Prescriptions Befriend
ACET is a Christian response to AIDS .
Our Home teams are made up of doctors and nurses backed by a network of trained and active volunteers .
Our staff and volunteers are drawn from churches of all denominations .
Without their commitment we would not be able to provide such an extensive service .
Regional Offices London Edinburgh Glasgow Dundee Portsmouth Northampton Belfast Kampala , Uganda Constanta , Romania
Sexual activity among teenagers is - even in our churches .
A recent survey of church youth groups shows that 1 in 4 have had sex by the time they are eighteen years old , 1 in 10 under the age of sixteen .
Outside the church the statistics are higher still .
Prevention of infection is a major part of our response to HIV/AIDS and we are the largest independent provider of schools classes on AIDS .
Our aim is to reduce the number of new HIV infections by giving young people the facts about AIDS and by encouraging them to think about their future .
So far we have visited over 100 schools and to more than 50 , 000 pupils .
Survey of 150 church youth groups across the denominations - 1729 ( Agape 1991 )
By the turn of the century 9 out of 10 with HIV will be in countries - some 36 million people .
Many churches overseas are to meet the AIDS .
In some countries one third of all adults in towns and cities are already .
The effect in the future will be devastating .
ACET 's work with the churches in Africa and Romania has been recognised and supported by UNICEF , the World Health Organisation and by TEAR Fund .
We run training programmes in Romania and and prevention programmes in Uganda and Tanzania .
What can your church do ?
Your church can become a partner with ACET .
If we are to continue to meet the rapidly needs of those who look to us for care and prevention , we urgently need you to share the challenge with us .
This is why we are asking your church to link with ACET in a Christian response to AIDS both at home and overseas .
ACET can help your church with
Speakers for services , seminars or workshops .
Training church members as community volunteers .
Information , newsletters and advice .
ACET can help your church with
Making members aware of our work .
Appointing a member of your church as an ACET-Link representative .
Encouraging volunteer involvement .
Supporting us financially .
To provide practical care and to men , women and children with AIDS , irrespective of race , religion , lifestyle , sexual orientation or any other factor .
To reduce the number of new HIV infections by giving young people the facts about AIDS .
To help provide a local response to a global problem .
To equip the Church to make an effective Christian response to AIDS , respecting the historic teachings of the church and providing unconditional care .
PATRONS : The most Reverend and honourable the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury Dr George Carey BD Mth Phd Cliff Richard OBE General Eva Burrows OA Head of Salvation Army
on behalf of a client
`` On behalf of the family of my late brother , Robert , I wish to thank you for the compassion and shown to him by your organization during his long and difficult illness .
Please convey our gratitude to the volunteers .
Robert found peace and assurance his death and I believe such was achieved partly by the demonstration of the love of Jesus shown by you . ``
on behalf of a client
`` Thank you for all the you gave to us and to Bob during the last few days of his illness - I only wish we 'd been put in touch with ACET sooner .
I was particularly impressed by the way you managed to organise all the available services so efficiently - just at the time when we were beginning to wonder how we 'd manage . ``
Dr S J Bowcock Former Senior Registrar in Haematology , Hammersmith Hospital
`` I would like to thank you and your Team for all the effort and resources you have put into providing a home service for our patients .
Your Team has been invaluable in providing psychological as well as practical support for these patients which have been grossly lacking through the conventional channels .
I hope that you might be able to continue to help our patients in this manner . ``
`` I would like once again to thank you for the major contribution you 've made to our AIDS education programme this year .
I feel that this is reflected not just in the increased knowledge of the students but also in a change of attitude and a few greater degrees of empathy . ``
Roger Stephenson Fairlight Christian Centre
`` If there is to be an effective Christian response to AIDS we need to support organisations like ACET who are in the line giving practical care and . ``
Peter Ronayne St Lukes , West Norwood , Church of England
`` ACET is working in this field because , like Jesus , they are getting alongside those in need and helping the rest of us to understand and minister to those both and affected . ``
David Wise Greenford Church
`` Members of my church have been working with ACET since it started 3 years ago .
I have seen for myself the value of ACET 's work in the community and I would heartedly recommend other churches get behind the work in any way they can . ``
If you would like to know more about us and about our work please or write to :
Peter Glover or Peter Fabian ACET , PO Box 1323 , London W5 5TF Tel : 081 840 7879
ACET AIDS EDUCATION AND TRAINING
ANNUAL REVIEW 1990/91 bringing it home
ACET offices and personnel
CHAIRMAN 'S REPORT ACET - MEETING THE CHALLENGE OF AIDS
The last 12 months have seen further dramatic growth for ACET at home and overseas .
After only three years we are now caring for in four of those with AIDS in the UK .
The growing number of men , women and children with AIDS and the fact that people with the disease now survive longer , have made ever more pressing demands on our Home teams .
In the schools the needs for AIDS education has never been greater .
To meet the challenge we have strengthened our management to provide the foundation for further soundly based growth .
It is now more than ever clear that every section of society needs to be involved in responding to AIDS , including the churches .
ACET is a Christian initiative supported by all denominations .
It is the churches that provide our volunteers ; without their support we would not be able to provide a service at all .
The work they do is an inspiring example of what loving community care is all about .
Governmental organisations support us financially .
So do companies and trusts , and churches and individuals .
We thank them .
AIDS is here to stay .
In 1991/92 we shall need even more .
Every donation does help .
That help makes all the difference to people sick with AIDS who want to stay at home , rather than spend time unnecessarily in hospital .
SIR JOHN KCMG MG CHAIRMAN OF TRUSTEES
To give practical care to men , women and children ill at home with HIV/AIDS .
To prevent new HIV infections through a schools education programme .
to several countries over the last year , has brought it home to me how disastrous are the effects , worldwide , of the virus causing AIDS .
During the past year at least 1.5 million more men , women and children have become with HIV .
AIDS affects over 160 countries and is now taking an increasingly heavy toll .
By the year 2000 the World Health Organisation estimates that up to 40 million people will be infected with HIV .
Despite public perceptions , across the world 7 out of 10 infections are heterosexual .
WHO April 1991 .
In the UK the spread of infection has slowed down but the numbers ill and needing care are to rise and this is a reflection of levels of infection some years ago .
HOME IN THE UK
The need for a national and international AIDS charity has never been greater .
the UK 's main independent AIDS home provider , we cared for around 25 % of all those who died of AIDS last year .
In London , for our Home services the last twelve months .
We are the largest independent provider of professional home in the capital giving pain , and medical advice , 24 hour on call , emotional support and practical volunteer , including nightsitting .
I expect for this service to continue to grow the coming year .
AIDS deaths : April 1990 - March 1991 , UK total ( CDSC - 584 April 1991 . )
Our Home teams saw 141 AIDS deaths last year
In Scotland rapidly numbers of ill men , women and children at home have stretched our Edinburgh and Dundee teams to the limit .
Complex social problems have to be tackled including homelessness , imprisonment , birth of an infected child and death of one or even both parents .
I am pleased to report further extensions of home the last year to meet the growing needs in Glasgow and also to cover a greater area of the South Coast and the East Midlands .
This means that around 70 % of all those with AIDS in the UK live areas served by ACET Home .
Every day more young people are infected with HIV - often completely unaware they have been personally at risk - and risky behaviour is on the increase again .
Effective prevention has never been more urgently needed , especially in schools .
ACET educators see up to 4 , 000 pupils a month in face-to-face school presentations .
This year a total of 24 , 000 attended compared with 14 , 500 in 1989/90 .
Every educator has a personal story to tell from working our home teams .
Evaluations show these educators have a high impact and real credibility with 13 to 18 year olds .
School teachers and parents know they need to make AIDS real .
Our new 24 full colour schools booklet has been widely acclaimed by teachers and pupils as the best AIDS they have ever seen .
In Northern Ireland our work has been warmly received by both communities and their churches .
AFRICA - WHERE DO YOU START ?
With possibly in three of adults in some African towns and cities already HIV infected , it is hard to know how to begin to help .
Whole communities are being shaken by large numbers of deaths among young adults and young children .
Half a million babies have already been born with HIV in Africa .
Ten million children with be AIDS orphans by the year 2000 .
WHO April 1991 .
We are seeking to provide urgent help to churches and Christian organisations in their prevention campaigns and programmes , working closely with Tear Fund , the World Health Organisation , UNICEF and governments .
As a result of preparatory work , programmes will be starting in the next few months in Uganda and Tanzania .
Romania has been hit by a major tragedy with hundreds of young children HIV infected hazardous medical or treatments .
New children are being put at every day because many workers still do not know how to protect people from HIV .
Over the last year we have moved therefore from care to urgent training of Romanian people who can then become effective educators .
In 1990/91 we carried forward a substantial reserve which allowed us to meet greater than expected demands .
In recognition of the importance of our work , I am pleased to report that our Central Government grant was increased last year to & pound ; 140 , 00 with guaranteed funding for the next three years .
In addition , local boroughs and health authorities fund us through grants and contracts .
The balance of funding has come from trusts , companies , churches and individuals .
Despite these commitments , the last quarter was a difficult time with the recession and the changes in local government both having their effects .
ACET LONDON : HOME SERVICE
COMMUNITY CARE FOR THOSE WITH AIDS
`` You can be perfectly well with HIV but at other times it 's hard to do even basic things .
In the early days the stigma of being HIV positive drove away 60 % of my circle of friends .
Despite the publicity on transmission of the disease , ignorance was such that they became afraid to even visit me .
It soon became clear that I could no longer rely friends for help with everyday chores , like and housework , I needed it .
I contacted ACET who I knew provided practical care at home . ``
`` Illness , including chronic muscle debility , herpes , tremors and eye infections have come and gone .
Recently I have experienced near fatal fevers .
Every day is an effort .
That 's the reality ; you want life to be as it was .
But without the help of ACET and other voluntary organisations I would not have been able to maintain my independence . ``
Three quarters of the nation 's entire AIDS problem is to be found in London and the pattern of need is .
As London 's largest independent provider of community care we have seen these changes unfold at first hand .
Between 1984 and 1986 , those with AIDS died average some ten months diagnosis , but by 1987 to 1989 , the survival period had already doubled to twenty months .
Today , each person with AIDS is on average longer than two years , needing more care than ever before .
AIDS deaths : April 1990 - March 1991 totalled 430 in four Thames regions ( CDSC figures April 1991 ) of which 15-20 ( ) died outside M25 area .
Our London Home service saw 103 deaths in the same area .
British Medical Journal ( Source : BMJ 1991 ) ; 302 : 203-7 )
The `` cause of death figures `` are also beyond all recognition .
In 1986 , the classical pneumocystis pneumonia used to be the final event in the disease almost half ( 46 % ) of AIDS deaths .
While pneumonia continues to be a common occurrence , by 1989 improved treatment had reduced the numbers dying as a result to 3 % .
Instead , people are other problems are other problems such as cancers which give rise to the need for long-term community .
British Medical Journal ( Source : BMJ 1991 ) ; 302 : 203-7 )
For example the numbers needing to control pain are rising and up to one in five will need special pumps to deliver medication in the home .
Over the next twelve months we expect a further increase in those needing our Home to enable them to live and die at home .
P. Dixon , Postgraduate Medical Journal ( in paper No 17/Napp July 1991 ) .
Help to stay at home :
The commonest cause of death now is 's - a painful cancer .
Slowly lesions can produce difficulties in the lung and the gut , causing many problems including shortness of breath , and periods of continuous pain .
ACET SCOTLAND : `` WHO WILL CARE FOR MY CHILDREN WHEN I DIE ? ``
It is hard to fathom the pain at the death of a son or daughter , husband or wife , or friend .
But it is a pain that many families are having to live with as the number of those of AIDS .
We already support over 70 children from the families we visit .
Over the last year ACET 's centres in Dundee , Edinburgh and Glasgow have been asked to care for a growing number needing practical to stay at home .
In addition to illness , homelessness is a key issue .
Often entire families including young children need practical home , if necessary mum or dad has died .
One of the saddest aspects of AIDS is the plight of children infected with HIV .
For many families in Scotland , plays a big part in alleviating some of the huge problems the face .
Two out of five ACET clients in Scotland are women and therefore we anticipate an increase in the number of children needing care .
We already support over 70 children who belong to the families we visit .
Practical support in the home means that family members may not have to spend so in hospital .
Families can stay together through an extremely difficult period - but this can only happen if organisations like ACET are sufficiently .
YOU CA N'T PROVIDE TO THE HOMELESS
In other cases people do n't even have homes to lose .
Men and women discharged from hospital with nowhere to live , or released from prison back into the community , are having to sleep rough or wherever they can find a willing friend .
It is hard for those to make a fresh start , maintain good health and stay drugs .
Although we are often successful in securing accommodation , it is a problem which stretches our resources to the full and we are urgently raising money to buy emergency short term accommodation for people with HIV/AIDS .
In Scotland the AIDS problem is largely with HIV rapidly through the communal use of syringes and needles during the mid 1980s .
As a result there is now a large group who are at a similar stage of HIV infection at any one time .
ACET is in touch with around 300 infected individuals of which about 130 need to stay at home .
Drug use is an emotive issue .
But for many people , the slide into drug use has been to escape other problems - poor conditions , no real job prospects and broken relationships at home which all to feelings of hopelessness and .
People are still injecting and dirty equipment .
ACET 's response has been to provide clients with special tubes for the disposal of dirty needles and syringes or help them if they wish to cease injecting .
To help reduce infection , our community care workers also provide clean needles and to those clients who are injectors - an operation which has full medical supervision .
We also educate young people in schools about the dangers of drug .
Over the next decade a real challenge will be the effective provision of care for children and families affected by HIV/AIDS .
Ultimately death itself may be seen as a release .
However the process of can be marred by guilt and rejection .
On the other hand it can bring about reconciliation between families and friends and a new appreciation of life 's true values .
ACET EDUCATION : AIDS IN OUR SCHOOLS
Every day , despite massive health campaigns , thousands of young people are still taking serious risks .
Tragically , more are becoming HIV infected , and many of those we care for with AIDS today were infected as teenagers .
With many sexually active their sixteenth birthday and with drug taking on the increase , education needs to start young .
AIDS is a sensitive area which many schools are unsure how to tackle .
But if we are to reduce the number of new infections and protect our young people , they must be given the facts about AIDS/HIV and given the opportunity to discuss the issues openly .
ACET is in a unique position to meet the need by carrying a high impact message at high risk behaviour .
Videos and literature are not enough .
Official materials and guidelines do not always find with parents and governors .
Very often they are pleased to invite ACET as a church-based agency .
Our educators present a personal message , each one having had experience of for those with AIDS at home .
Furthermore our work in Uganda and Romania adds a wider perspective .
The content of each lesson is agreed beforehand in consultation with teachers so it can be tailored to the priorities and individual needs of the school or class .
Prejudices are challenged and myths - for example men and drug users are at risk .
Pupils are encouraged to consider how they might feel if they were carrying the virus and how they might care for people with HIV/AIDS , especially those with unfamiliar lifestyles .
Over the last year , 24 , 000 pupils attended ACET class presentations , as against 14 , 500 in 1989/90 .
The aim of our schools programme is quite simple ; to reduce the number of new infections and to encourage positive attitudes towards those with AIDS .
An educator only has to prevent one new HIV infection a year to save the NHS his or her entire salary in future AIDS treatment costs .
Our programme has been extended to parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland making it the largest of its kind in the UK .
We hope to be able to increase its reach even further in the coming year .
HIV/AIDS education is placed in the context of lifeskills or health education - the most common slot is `` personal and social education `` .
Our latest schools booklet has been enthusiastically received by many pupils and teachers .
In a follow-up survey , the great majority rated it the best AIDS they had seen .
This is one lesson that could save their lives .
ACET OVERSEAS : THE RACE AGAINST TIME
In Constanta , , there are over 550 children with AIDS .
By the year 2000 , of the 40 million to be infected with the virus causing AIDS , 36 million will be in the developing world .
The global dimension of AIDS requires individual organisations and communities to rapidly develop their own local approaches and responses to the problem although often with limited resources .
Seven million are already HIV infected sub-Saharan Africa , increasing over one million a year .
Our work in the African continent centres on Uganda and is supported by Tear Fund .
We also have a community care and education programme in Tanzania .
In Uganda , the number of people estimated to be HIV is 1.3 million , representing 1 in 8 of the entire adult population .
Indicates are that this figure is to rise .
There is a great deal of suffering with deaths almost every family in some areas .
ACET aims to be a practical resource to local churches and Christian organisations seeking to prevent new infection and provide basic community care .
Over the next twelve months we will be providing to a growing number of new and existing local programmes , identified as a result of an extensive survey we have just completed .
There is an urgent need for further prevention .
Practical help is also needed for those who are and for orphans behind .
Uganda is a developing country with neither the wealth nor the health service infrastructure to cope with the problem adequately .
ROMANIA - OLD HABITS
It is well known that many children in Romanian hospitals have been infected with HIV through reused needles , and infected blood transfusions .
In Constanta alone there are over 550 children with AIDS .
Adults are also .
Last year ACET provided urgently medical supplies to the worst areas .
We were also invited by the Inspector of Preventative Medicine in Brasov to hold and HIV/AIDS Health Education course for doctors , nurses and teachers in the Brasov district .
At the same time we appointed a Romanian , Ana Ureche , to coordinate and represent our work .
The aim of the course was primarily to train Health Educators , who in turn can train others in hospitals , schools and communities , reducing the risk of further infection .
Our first and subsequent courses have been a success and are part of a long-term commitment to AIDS prevention .
In the future we hope also to be able to assist further with practical care .
ACET is involved in the planning and implementation of a Home project with the Church of Ireland Missionary Society and Diocese of Mwanza , funded by WHO .
This will help prevent the spread of infection in local Tanzanian villages as well as provide basic community care .
The Romanian Government , WHO and UNICEF have taken a great interest in our education programme and are actively looking for ways to use it as a model for Health Education in Romania .
AUDITORS ' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AIDS EDUCATION AND TRAINING
We have audited the above financial statements in accordance with Standards .
Neville Russell Accountants , Spencer House , Grove Hill Road , Harrow , Middlesex .
ACET UK has 40 staff and relies on volunteers in the office as well as in the community .
A full set of audited accounts is available on request .
ACET OFFICES AND PERSONNEL
Here are some of the people involved in providing ACET 's home and educational services .
AMNESTY Journal of the British Section of Amnesty International No 51 June/July 1991
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 30 YEARS OF STRUGGLE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS
Global Warning By Norma Johnston
Do n't Forget to Write
US Death Penalty : Yard Blues By Piers Bannister
Sri Lanka : Paradise in Turmoil By Peter Nicholls
Morocco : Speaking Shadows By Dan Jones
South Africa : Righting the Record By Brian Dooley
Refugees : Jumping the Hurdles By Jan Shaw
Josef , one of AI 's earliest .
2 , 300 inmates of America 's death .
The family , released in February 1991 .
Billy Connolly and the groups break out !
Amnesty International opposes torture and the death penalty in all cases without reservation and advocates fair and prompt trials for all political prisoners .
Amnesty International is independent of all governments , political factions , ideologies , economic interests and religious creeds .
It has formal relations with the United Nations ( ECOSOC ) , UNESCO , the Council of Europe , the Organisation of American States , and the Organisation of African Unity .
Amnesty International was the recipient of the 1977 Nobel Prize for Peace .
NATURAL FRIENDS is a unique friendship/contact agency .
If you seek other sincere people who share your important concerns , there is a very good chance that we can help .
For details please send a stamped addressed envelope to :
, a new fiction poetry magazine , is now on sale , 70p from Dave Leggett
It is not yet clear how many of the almost 80 other prisoners at the same time were held for political reasons .
Khonje , a 43-year-old area sugar company manager , was arrested on 28 February 1989 , reportedly after being overheard policy decisions by Life-President Hastings Kamazu Banda .
George Mtafu , Malawi 's only neurosurgeon , was arrested the same month after refusing to apologise for criticisms of northern Malawians made by Life-President Banda .
Other northern Malawians arrested between February and May 1989 are thought to be among those set free .
Others included William Masiku , detained since 1980 , Brown Mmpinganjira , detained since 1986 , Margaret Marango Banda , detained since 1988 , and Blaise Machira , also detained since 1988 .
The releases mark the first improvement in the rights situation in Malawi for several years .
however , other prominent prisoners of conscience remain behind bars .
For example , Goodluck , a veterinary surgeon arrested in September 1987 , has been rejected for release by a committee to review the cases of political detainees .
Amnesty International has welcomed the releases , but is urging the government to release all remaining prisoners of conscience immediately and unconditionally .
Five prisoners of conscience in Swaziland November 1990 under renewable 60-day administrative detention orders were released on 22 March 1991 .
The five were previously imprisoned from June October 1990 for allegedly organizing a political party - all parties are .
The releases occurred shortly before two AI representatives arrived in Swaziland for talks with the government .
The victims were among some 3 , 000 black Mauritanians arrested last year .
The authorities claimed they were conspiring to overthrow the government , which is dominated by a different community , the Moors , but offered no evidence to substantiate this claim .
It took AI several months to compile details of the killings , but prisoners released in March 1991 provided information and themselves from torture .
In a few cases , prisoners are reported to have been deliberately executed without trial .
Most of the reported deaths , however , were due to torture in both military barracks and police stations .
of political detainees in Mauritania has been since 1986 , but it has never before been used on such a scale .
After the March 1991 releases , over 70 detainees were still held and were apparently due to be brought to trial in April .
However , the trial has been postponed indefinitely .
Over 150 men , women and children were killed by Mali 's security forces in March , a wave of pro-democracy demonstrations and riots .
In the wake of the killings the government led by President Moussa Traor & eacute ; was overthrown .
At least 40 people were killed in on 22 March after a student demonstration was stopped by the security forces and rioting broke out .
A state of emergency was declared but at least another 40 people were killed the following day .
Some were shot dead when thousands of women , protesting against the killings , tried to march on the President 's residence .
Up to 65 protesters were reported to have been burned to death when security forces set fire to a shopping centre in which they were seeking refuge .
Soldiers also shot at mourners burying the dead at two cemeteries in .
Amnesty International called on the Malian Government to halt the killings .
Following a general strike and for his resignation , the President was arrested on 26 March by fellow army officers .
Some 50 others associated with the former government were also detained .
The authorities early elections , and said the former president and others arrested would be brought to trial .
Amnesty International has received information nearly 300 Ugandan nationals currently detained for political reasons in Rwanda .
They have not been charged or tried and may be imprisoned because of their nationality , in retaliation for the authorities support of the armed opposition group , the Rwandese Patriotic Front .
Relatives and friends of a man dead during pro-democracy demonstrations in , with the body in a hospital morgue .
In a breakthrough case on 20 March this year , four policemen in Guatemala City were of the murder of a 13-year-old street child and sentenced to between 10 and 15 years ' imprisonment .
Naham & aacute ; n Carmona L & oacute ; pez was attacked by the four policemen on 4 March 1990 in Guatemala City .
He died in hospital several days later of multiple injuries , including a ruptured liver , six fractured ribs , two broken fingers and severe bruising to 70 per cent of his body .
( See Amnesty Oct/Nov 1990 ) .
The four members of the National Police were arrested in June 1990 .
At their trial , the judge is believed to have added 25 per cent to each sentence specifically because the police had carried out the attack while operating their capacity .
In April AI learned that warrants had been issued for the arrest of two police officers and a in connection with the killing of 17-year-old Morales .
was shot and on 25 June 1990 in Guatemala City by two uniformed police officers .
The three are also believed to be implicated in other cases of serious violations against street children .
Thirty-six other lawsuits against 35 National Police officers , three Treasury Police officers , 10 civilians and three judges for a wide range of abuses against street children are reportedly pending in Guatemalan courts .
A BBC1 programme entitled `` They Shoot Children Do n't They ? `` screened in January this year on the plight of the children .
The producers closely with an AI researcher and on the work of Bruce Harris , a human rights worker in Guatemala .
Viewers wishing to help were given the address of AI at the end of the programme : over 1 , 500 letters were subsequently received at the AI office .
In response , AI out information packs on the case of and people to write letters to the relevant authorities .
With letters still coming in , AI will be sending out information on other street children 's cases in Guatemala - many of 's friends who witnessed the attack have been subjected to harassment from the police .
AI has appealed to Brazilian parliamentarians expressing its concern over the moves to reinstate the death penalty .
The death penalty was excluded from the Brazilian Penal Code in 1890 and its abolition is enshrined in the 1988 Constitution .
At least nine people were killed between November 1990 and January 1991 by death squads linked to the Armed Forces .
Some of the bodies showed signs of torture and in many cases personal documents had been removed to prevent identification .
There have also been some reports of `` disappearances `` following arrests by the military or police July 1990 .
Of particular concern is the pattern of abductions by armed men in plain clothes in security force style operations , most of which took place at night .
Amnesty has received repeated reports of violation of detention procedures .
Military units have frequently carried out arrests and failed promptly to hand over detainees to the police - a number have been held beyond the 72-hour-limit .
is still being used to intimidate detainees .
AI has appealed to President Alberto for a prompt investigation into a bomb on Dr Augusto Z & uacute ; & ntilde ; iga opened a letter which blew his left hand and .
At the time , Dr. Z & uacute ; & ntilde ; iga was working on the case of student Castillo P & aacute ; ez , who `` disappeared `` after he was reportedly detained by police on 21 October 1990 in Lima .
The case received wide publicity a habeas corpus petition was upheld by two lower courts .
However , the Supreme Court subsequently the habeas corpus on grounds of procedural irregularites .
Dr. Z & uacute ; & ntilde ; iga was warned that the police might seek reprisals against him , but although he informed the authorities of this , novo specific measures of protection were apparently offered to him .
People 's Republic of China
As AI launched a campaign in March 1991 against the extensive use of the death penalty in China , a nationwide to crack down on crime continued unabated .
AI has recorded a bout 100 death sentences each month since the beginning of 1991 .
During 1990 AI almost 1 , 000 death sentences , of which at least 750 in executions .
In the official press , Chinese politicians , as well as senior members of the judiciary , have repeatedly urged that instructions to `` punish criminals heavily and rapidly `` be strictly adhered to .
Some prisoners who would not normally have received the death sentence may have fallen victim to political interference in the judicial process .
Increased emphasis on speedy investigation and in death penalty cases is likely to have further undermined the rights of defendants to a fair trial .
On 14 March 24-year-old Han Weijun was executed .
He had first been found guilty of fire to an armoured personnel carrier commandeered by students and a car during the 19898 pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing .
His was the first execution in several months for an offence to the `` counter-revolutionary rebellion `` .
A court notice reported the economic loss of the two vehicles , but did not mention any military casualties .
The death penalty is routinely used in for serious economic crimes which involve no personal violence .
Hundreds of Afghan political prisoners have reportedly been held without charge or trial for up to nine years in interrogation centres and segregated prison blocks operated by the Ministry of State Security .
In a recent report , AI called on the Afghan Government to end the torture and long-term detention without trial of political prisoners .
The detainees include individuals of involvement in armed opposition or non-violent anti-government activity .
They are initially held in isolation cells for periods as long as several months .
During their isolation , they are reportedly access to legal counsel and family visits and are at risk of systematic torture and .
Two AI delegates were recently invited as guest speakers to a week-long conference in Colombo on trade unions and human rights .
The delegates met several senior government officials and discussed possibilities for future access by AI to Sri Lanka .
AI was last access to the country in 1982 .
Among those the delegates were the Adviser to the President on International Affairs , the Secretary to the Ministry of Defence , the Inspector General of Police , and the Commissioner General of Rehabilitation .
The government subsequently announced to the press that `` a research to Sri Lanka would be considered favourably if a formal request were made `` by AI .
In the April/May letter campaign , there was an error in the appeal on behalf of Taiwanese prisoner .
As there is no Embassy of Taiwan in the UK , please do not copy any appeals to another embassy , as proposed on the letter page .
We apologise sincerely for this clerical error , and regret the confusion and inconvenience it has caused .
More than 130 political prisoners from Irian Jaya are currently serving lengthy prison terms for advocating the province 's independence from Indonesia .
Most have been convicted since 1988 under Indonesia 's sweeping Anti-Subversion Law , of attempting to establish an independent state of `` West Papua `` .
Amnesty International believes that their trials were unfair .
The organization has already adopted two of the prisoners as prisoners of conscience and believes that some 80 others may be POCs .
Among the possible prisoners of conscience are 37 people sentenced to up to 20 years ' imprisonment for their involvement in a peaceful ceremony in the town of on 14 December 1988 .
A woman to have sewn the flag was sentenced to eight years in prison and her husband , who led the ceremony , to 20 years .
In 1990 a police officer of copies of a patriotic song to high-school students was sentenced to 13 years ' imprisonment by a military court .
Four men who allegedly planned demonstrations in December 1989 to commemorate the 1988 , were sentenced to terms of between six and 12 years .
This pattern of rights violations is described in a recent AI report , Indonesia : Rights Violations in Irian Jaya , available from the British Section office .
UN Commission on Human Rights
Another significant development to emerge from the latest session of the Commission , in March 1991 , was its decision to establish a Working Group on arbitrary detention .
This will be the first UN mechanism with a clear mandate to examine cases of detained prisoners of conscience anywhere in the world .
It will fill an important gap in the framework of protection established by the Commission 's existing `` theme mechanisms `` on `` disappearances `` , and summary or arbitrary executions .
However , it was that a new international instrument on `` disappearances `` was held over for further study .
The Commission the rights situation in Afghanistan , Romania , El Salvador and Iran but sent a clear signal that it may terminate special scrutiny of the latter two countries at its next session .
It decided to transfer Haiti to the Advisory Services and also to keep Guatemala under this program for a further year despite AI 's appeals for stronger measures .
This law includes amendments to the penal code and the release of approximately 38 , 000 prisoners .
Most of those released are non-political prisoners of criminal offences , but a number of prisoners of conscience will also be released .
Many political prisoners who had been sentenced to death or life imprisonment unfair trials following the 1980 coup will continue to serve sentences of up to 20 years .
The new law may in fact the already serious risk of torture facing political detainees .
Suspected torturers are permitted under the new law to continue to interrogate detainees while charges against them are outstanding .
Police officers who have taken statements from detainees will also be exempted from being questioned in court unless they agree to do so , making it difficult for detainees to challenge the validity of any confessions under torture .
There has been a marked increase in reports of deaths as a result of torture in Turkish police stations .
Nine such cases have been reported to AI since 25 November 1990 .
Statistics on the death penalty in the USSR have been made for the first time since 1934 .
Figures on its use from 1985 to 1989 were announced by the Minister of Justice at a press conference on 16 January 1991 .
These show a progressive decrease in death sentences from 770 in 1985 , of which 20 were , to 271 in 1988 with 72 commutations .
The 1989 figures indicate a reversal of this trend with 276 death setences and a sharp reduction of commutations to 23 .
The 1990 figures , provided more recently by the Ministry of , show a dramatic increase to 447 death sentences , mostly for murder under circumstances .
The same source reports that 190 executions took place last year .
AI welcomes the publication of statistics on the death penalty , as well as current proposals to limit its scope .
However , it remains concerned that there has been no on sentences or executions pending the review of existing legislation .
15 villagers including three minors were killed and 19 others , including several children , when soldiers fire on a crowd of unarmed people on 2/12/90 .
Well-known broadcaster and journalist Richard de Zoysa was and in February 1990 .
Free at last : 16 years of wrongful imprisonment the `` Birmingham Six `` enjoy their first taste of freedom .
Pictured above with UK parliamentarian Chris Mullin ( centre ) who campaigned for their release , from left to right are John Walker , Patrick Hill , Hugh Callaghan , Richard McIlkenny , Gerard Hunter and William .
One of many arrests that occurred Labour Day when police dispersed a peaceful rally in Istanbul , May 1988 .
CLASSIFIED ADS AI member and stamp collector offers free stamp packets ( limited number ) to AI groups for sale at their book sales , stalls , etc .
In April AI appealed to the Iraqi Government in the strongest possible terms to put an immediate end to the mass deliberate killing of unarmed civilians and the summary execution of government opponents and their suspected supporters .
The appeal followed numerous reports Iraqi Government forces were committing these and other rights violations following the recapture of cities and town in the northern Kurdish and southern areas of the country .
Many Kurds and Arab Muslims were reportedly deliberately killed by Iraqi forces as they fled to Iran , Turkey and the then region of southern Iraq .
AI stated that it strongly feared that the refugee population would be at risk of certain torture , `` disappearance `` or execution if returned to Iraqi Government control .
The plight of some 600 detainees acknowledged by the authorities was also giving for concern .
They had been held in the Military Prison outside Kuwait City , some for over a month , reportedly in deplorable conditions .
Medical care was virtually non-existent , food and often withheld , and rife .
The authorities were not granting full access to detainees by independent bodies , such as the International committee of the Red Cross , and relatives were not being informed of detainees ' whereabouts .
As a result , the fate of many victims remained unknown .
Dozens of people are reported to have been tortured while held incommunicado in prolonged garde & agrave ; vue detention by the Tunisian police since January 1991 .
Garde & agrave ; vue detention allows the police to detain suspects for interrogation for a period of up to 10 days .
AI is concerned that the Tunisian Government , by its failure to investigate allegations of torture to its notice , appears to be condoning the use of torture .
AI welcomed the formation by the Tunisian Government of an official rights council on 9 April 1991 , although the organization remained concerned at reports of torture and ill-treatment of political detainees in garde & agrave ; vue detention .
On 9 May AI published Bahrain : Violations of human rights .
The report describes how in recent years hundreds of political activists or suspected activists , including prisoners of conscience , have been subjected to arbitrary arrest and and sentenced after unfair trials .
Many are held for months or years in administrative or pretrial detention , usually .
It is during this time that torture most commonly occurs .
Some detainees have been held for as long as seven years without charge or trial .
AI has repeatedly called on the Government to ratify and implement international rights treaties as a matter of urgency .
al-'Azzaz , a prominent writer and journalist , was released uncharged on 4 March .
In November 1990 he had been arrested in connection with a protest by women in Riyadh against a ban on women drivers .
He was held in solitary confinement in the Intelligence headquarters in Riyadh and was reportedly tortured .
He had previously been arrested in May 1982 , when he was of al-Yawm newspaper , and was held without charge or trial until he was released following an amnesty at the end of 1982 .
A Kurdish mother and her sick child at refugee camp on the Iraq/Turkish border , April 1991 .
30 years ago on Trinity Sunday , 28 May 1961 , the British Lawyer , Peter Beneson ( right ) started Amnesty International .
This year on Trinity Sunday , a candle-lighting ceremony with music , poetry , banners and balloons was held on the steps of St Martin's-in-the-fields church to mark AI 's anniversary .
Special Amnesty forget-me-not badges were worn to commemorate all the prisoners on whose behalf Amnest was founded .
Joseph Beran ( right ) , former Archbishop of Prague , was one of the eight prisoners in the original Observer article .
One of Amnesty 's earliest , in 1964 he came to London to light a candle for Amnesty .
Keep the candle burning in the '90s
Keep the 30th Anniversary log the country for Amnesty 's anniversary .
Arnold Rose from Brighton is raising money through being sponsored for a 24-hour marathon .
The Lincolnshire County Council recreational services are organising a concert for Amnesty at Lincoln Castle in aid of Amnesty on 17 August .
The Ealing Group held a `` Recorder Concert `` in a Sloane Square church , raising & pound ; 265.00 .
The Flesh It Out Theatre Company from East London are doing a show at the Edinburgh Festival on behalf of Amnesty .
MA in human rights
A new MA degree in human rights is being offered by the University of Essex .
Unique in the UK , and probably in the world , the is a one-year course in October 1991 .
It is intended both for those who want to do practical or legal work for human rights organizations , and for those who would find it an outstanding preparation for research degrees in Law , Philosophy and Politics .
Best Cards in the Biz
Amnesty has been given Greetings Magazine 's `` Best Charity Card of the Year `` award .
This award was presented to Amnesty International following the decision of an independent panel of judges drawn from members of the nationwide and chaired by a from the greetings industry .
The design itself was commissioned by Trading Officer Craig Methven and painted by Sheila Moxley , who has designed Amnesty 's 1992 Human Rights Calendar .
Free at last !
BBC2 TV `` Prisoners of conscience series Nov/Dec 1990 -
As in previous years the response to the `` prisoners of Conscience `` programmes shown on the BBC in November/December 1990 has been tremendous and effective , and we are still 10 enquiries a week about prisoners .
The programmes , which this year featured 19 prisoners of conscience or `` disappearances `` , received 15 , 000 phone calls and letters .
All those who have written to the prisoners will be pleased to know that Henrick Gjoka from Albania , Reverend Lawford from Kenya and Ernesto Diaz Rodriguez from Cuba have been released .
Hong Song-dam from South Korea has had his prison sentence while Khalid Kid from Sudan has been moved to Kober Prison , Khartoum , Sudan .
If you have had your letters to Dr Nguyen Dan Que from Vietnam returned , could you please send them to Dr Que 's brother , Dr Nguyen Quoc-Quan , .
Please continue to write until all the prisoners of conscience in the series are free , or until there have been satisfactory investigations into those who have `` disappeared `` .
Do you support human rights in Rochdale ?
You can - in a positive way - by helping the Rochdale Group make their Auction of Artists ' a huge success .
The group is artists to contribute paintings , illustrations , sketches - artwork of all kinds - to be auctioned off by the Mayor of Rochdale on Saturday 19 October at 7 pm at the Rochdale Gallery .
All contributions should be or on board and with Jill Morgan at the Rochdale Gallery from Saturday 12 October 1991 .
Collection of artwork can be arranged by ringing Trevor Hoyle , on 0706-843677 .
Any surplus music ?
If AI members have any surplus sheet music , would they consider letting George Jackson have it for his stall ?
The music can be of any sort , of any age , and no matter how tattered or .
Parcels should be addressed to .
When is an item worth over & pound ; 60 , 000 ? ? ? & hellip ; when it 's a prize in an Amnesty .
Thinking ahead to our Christmas and prizes .
We have had very generous responses to previous requests to our membership .
Can anyone can offer a holiday cottage ?
Persuade their to donate a hi-fi system ! , a voucher ! , ! , yacht ! etc. etc. they will receive a mention on the ticket and publicity material and obviously a warm altruistic glow .
Please contact Noreen at the British Section with any possible offer .
Eric Taylor 's sixth annual Exhibition of Oil Paintings in aid of Amnesty and the Medical Foundation is being held in Tewkesbury Abbey , Gloucestershire , from 19-26 June inclusive .
So far Eric Taylor has raised a magnificent & pound ; 2 , 900 by donations and profits .
Though supported by the Cheltenham Group , this is an entirely solo effort , and all types of subject are covered .
Please support generously !
Ex-Services Amnesty Group starts !
At a meeting in February , the Ex-Services Group of the British Section of AI was officially launched .
Its members will help Amnesty with knowledge of military experience and expertise ( in the same way that the Lawyers ' Group and the Medical Groups their specialist fields ) .
The Group will work on behalf of service and ex-service personnel whose rights are being abused and will be involved in the development of rights awareness in armed services .
it has an ex-RAF man as its Secretary and a Major and a Wing Commander among its participants .
No matter where the world rights violations occur - from India to Iran , Chile to Czechoslovakia - Amnesty International is there to warn the world .
In this , its 300th anniversary year , its role as human rights watchdog is as vital now as ever it was .
Santiago , Chile : On a warm autumn evening in 1990 international rock dances on stage with a group of mothers and grandmothers of the `` disappeared `` .
The event , organized by the Section of Amnesty International , is entitled `` An Embrace of `` .
Moscow , USSR : At the same time , 12 , 000 miles away , a delegation from Amnesty 's International Secretariat is making plans for a Moscow Group to participate in the Women in the Line campaign .
To outsiders , the two events may seem little more than an international organization at work , but for Amnesty members these events are charged with significance .
But incredulous , or not , the events ( millions of television viewers worldwide watched the concert ) and as such they typify the massive changes Amnesty has undergone in its 30-year history .
Sadly , one thing has not changed in 30 years : certain governments of the world still falsely imprison , and execute their citizens , regardless of internationally standards that expressly forbid such abuses .
Around the world today , more than 100 countries still retain the death penalty , and two out of every three human beings live governments that and other cruel , inhuman and treatment against them .
For this reason the elements of the organization - and includes many of the 80 , 000 British members who undertake to be active on Amnesty 's behalf - have increased and refined their methods over the years .
The Regional Action Network illustrates how campaigners have refined their methods .
Members working on behalf of a prisoner learn a lot about that country - its culture and political allegiance for example - knowledge is no longer useful when the case is .
At group level , the days have gone when three prisoners per group ( one from the West , the East and a non-aligned country ) were obligatory .
Nowadays , impartiality need not be expressed quite so crudely , and a look at any group 's case load will show that a balance is always maintained .
In the 1961 Observer article that launched Amnesty , Benenson listed the aims of the organization .
They included : `` to enlarge the Right of Asylum and political refugees to find work . ``
Adherence to this principle has never faltered , but other areas of concern took precedence and it was not until the late 1970s that this area of work was developed .
In 1985 on behalf of refugees took its place in the statute of Amnesty .
The British Section refugee office has played a leading role in this area of work , processing some 4 , 000 cases since 1980 .
The perception of Amnesty has also changed and this has not happened by accident .
For a long time deemed a white , Western organization , the up of section sin countries like Tunisia , Algeria and South Korea , are ample illustration of Amnesty 's worldwide stature .
a multi-lingual movement the rights message can be conveyed via dozens of reports , books and audio-visual materials to audiences from Japan to Nigeria .
Amnesty is global in name and nature .
The very life blood of Amnesty is its research teams - there are currently 40 based at the International Secretariat in London .
Things have changed for them too , says Anne Burley , Head of Europe Region at the IS .
`` I joined Amnesty in 1968 when there were n't any teams or regions .
Volunteers on research alongside their paid counterparts and Burley recalls the hundreds of Spanish and Portuguese POCs on whose behalf Amnesty at that time .
Of course , none of the work carried out by Amnesty could continue without money and it is in this respect that sections , particularly the larger sections like the British , have a vital role to play .
The annual budget for 1990 was & pound ; 11 million , which represents only a third of the money worldwide on Amnesty 's behalf .
It excludes the contributions made by individuals who finance the sending of telexes and telegrams as well as the funds required to support national sections .
It recruited 4 , 000 new members and raised & pound ; 70 , 000 .
Add to this the monies raised by new members the length and breadth of the British Isles who contributed to the Section 's annual turnover of & pound ; 2.25 million with their cultural events , walks and street collections .
From a handful of POCs in the early Sixties , the number of cases taken up by Amnesty now stands at 42 , 000 of which 38 , 000 are now closed .
Full-scale Amnesty sections are now operational in 44 countries , with active groups in another 16 , and a total membership of more than one million across 150 countries .
The list of laws that have been amended , the treaties that have been ratified , and prisoners ' conditions that have been improved is a long one .
However , it is not long enough .
In the years since 1961 , Eastern European dictators have come and gone , moves in South Africa for the future , and countries abolishing the death penalty are on the increase .
Globally however , much ahead .
In Benenson 's words : `` The gradual change over the last 30 years in the perception of the value of human life is a measure of Amnesty 's influence .
But we will not have finished cruelty , be it killing or , is seen as obscene and impermissible . ``
Above : ( ) A historic breakthrough - Amnesty arrives at the Moscow Book Fair in September 1989 ; ( ) AI Group , Bangladesh , April 1988 .
Opposite : A concert crowd in New Delhi , during the Rights Now !
AN UPDATE ON SOME OF THE 92 PRISONERS OF CONSCIENCE IN THE LETTER CAMPAIGN IN 1989 AND 1990 - 39 ARE NOW FREE !
In 1962 AI 's first ever journal had good news on its front page .
A prisoner of conscience had been freed in Spain .
A Christmas card to him by an AI member in Switzerland had been returned `` Consigned is free `` .
Since then , every issue of the journal has published appeals for the release of other prisoners of conscience .
Many of these prisoners are now free .
Some have thanked AI , but we take no credit for anyone 's freedom .
We know from experience that many factors - some of which may never be apparent to outside observers - determine whether a prisoner of conscience is released .
Today the terrible injustice done to those prisoners reaches a mass audience .
Amnesty sections all over the world include the Prisoner Letter cases in the magazines and newssheets they publish many other languages , from Faroe to Banlga .
In many countries , regional and national newspapers on these prisoner cases - the Slovenian weekly , the French national daily Le Monde , and the daily The Muslim , to name but a few .
Year , year out , the Prisoner Letter Campaign provides a unique window into the harsh and desperate world of the prisoner of conscience .
Hundreds of thousands of people have appealed for their freedom .
And the prisoners themselves know that they are not alone , that the world has not forgotten them .
The 1990s began with a dramatic upturn of the fortunes of thousands of prisoners of conscience across eastern and central Europe .
In Czechoslovakia former prisoner of conscience Vaclav Havel became President of his country .
In many of these countries the new respect for human rights was embodied in the repeal or revision of laws used to imprison prisoners of conscience .
But there are still prisoners of conscience in Europe , and in every other region of the world .
39 of the prisoners in the letter campaign have been released ; about 50 remain prison .
None of these people should ever have been prisoners of conscience .
Our task today is to increase the international pressure on behalf of the thousands of prisoners of conscience all over the world , to make tomorrow the day their freedom is .
Francisco Bonifacio Mba remains in prison in Equatorial Guinea .
He is serving a 20-year sentence in 1988 by a military court which found him guilty of attempting to overthrow the government .
In Kenya Harris Okong'o Arara continues to serve a five-year sentence in 1988 under a law which makes it a criminal offence simply to possess literature critical of the government .
Mosissa , a former civil servant , remains in detention without trial in Ethiopia .
He was arrested in 1980 , with hundreds of other members of the ethnic group who were of links with an Oromo guerilla group .
Although many of these detainees were released in 1989 , including Mulugetta 's wife and son , he is one of 50 still held .
Three Colombian prisoners in the Letter remain `` `` .
Dr Alirio de Jes & uacute ; s Pedraza Becerra , a 40-year old lawyer and human rights worker , was abducted by eight heavily armed men on the night of 4 July 1990 in Bogot & aacute ; .
A judicial inquiry has been initiated into his case but to AI 's knowledge , no progress has been made .
The police deny its agents were present .
Tarcisio Medina Charry , a 21-year-old student , `` disappeared `` after being arrested in 1988 .
A judicial investigation into his case ordered the arrest of a member of the national police .
However the case was passed to the military courts who revoked the arrest order .
The investigation continues .
, a 33-year-old teacher , `` disappeared `` after being detained on 7 February 1989 by an army .
A judicial investigation implicated three members of the Caldas Battalion of the army .
The Procurator Delegate for the Armed Forces is conducting a separate investigation .
Luis Miguel Sol & iacute ; s was 25 when he `` disappeared `` in Guatemala on 3 May 1990 .
He was a leader of the National Council for the Displaced .
Despite assurances from government officials that an investigation is in progress , his whereabouts remain unknown .
Alexander and Manan Effendi have been imprisoned in Indonesia since 1965 .
Both in their 70s , they continue to serve life sentences imposed in connection with an abortive coup in that year which was blamed on the Communist Party of Indonesia ( ) .
Although both were linked to the PKI , there is no evidence that either of them had knowledge of the events leading to the coup .
Their cases were featured in a British Section Christmas card campaign in 1990 and they received 1 , 704 cards as a result of the appeal .
In early 1991 AI received a letter directly from the two men .
They had copied out the names and addresses of everyone who wrote to them and enclosed the list with a message of thanks and good wishes , asking that it be sent on .
Also in Indonesia , Agil , a law student , continues to serve a 15-year sentence for subversion in 1987 .
He is one of a group of seven young Muslim activists in Brebes , Central Java , convicted on charges arising from their involvement in Muslim groups known as usroh , aiming to deepen awareness of Islamic teachings .
Agil is serving his sentence in an island prison , far away from his home and family .
Another of the seven students , 20-year-old Wahyudi , a prisoner in the April/May 1989 , is still serving a seven-year sentence in , Central Java .
Kayathiri Vino was 10 years old when she was arrested in Jaffna District , Sri Lanka , in 1987 with her mother and two older sisters .
They all `` disappeared `` after being taken into custody by members of the Indian Peace Keeping Force .
No investigation is known to have been carried out either by the Indian or Sri Lankan authorities .
Two prisoners of conscience in Laos have been held for over 15 years for `` re-education `` .
Sisoumang Sisaleumsak and Houmphanh Norasing , both detained since 1975 , are among 33 detainees still held in Laos ' northeastern province of Houa .
Their conditions are harsh with poor provision of , food and medicines .
The South Korean authorities wrote to AI in response to its appeals for imprisoned artist Hong Song-dam and publisher Ui-gyun .
In September 1990 the Supreme Court dismissed the charges of espionage and returned the case to a lower court .
In January 1991 Hong Song-dam was sentenced to three years ' imprisonment for material North Korea .
Ui-gyun continues to serve an eight-year sentence for espionage .
They also stated that he had received funds from North Korea .
AI had reviewed these accusations , but had found them unsubstantiated .
Father Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly , a Roman priest in Viet Nam , was arrested in May 1983 after trying to organize an unauthorized pilgrimage .
In December 1983 he was sentenced to 10 years ' imprisonment for `` opposing the revolution `` .
He remains detained at `` Three Stars `` in Ha Nam province .
Aung , a 26-year-old student leader , was arrested by the martial law authorities in Myanmar on 24 April 1989 .
AI has received that he was sentenced to four years ' imprisonment after an unfair trial by a military tribunal .
Min , a lawyer in his 40s , was also arrested under martial law in Myanmar .
He continues to serve a 14-year sentence because of reports he sent to the British Broadcasting Corporation and for `` possession of anti-government literature `` .
The four prisoners from China featured in the Letter in 1989 and 1990 are still in prison .
Zhang was sentenced to 13 years ' imprisonment in December 1989 for `` counter-revolutionary `` crimes during the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations .
, a 42-year-old worker from , is serving a 10-year sentence for `` counter-revolutionary incitement `` during the pro-democracy demonstrations .
Song Yude , a 34-year-old evangelist , was sentenced to eight years ' imprisonment in 1986 for carrying out unofficial religious activities .
In Tibet Ngawang Buchung , a monk from the Drepung Monastery in Lhasa , is still serving a 19-year sentence at a mass in November 1989 .
Ngawang Buchung was sentenced to long terms of imprisonment for activities in support of Tibetan independence , which included Tibetan translations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights .
In the Philippines , there have been some encouraging developments in the case of .
He was one of 25 farmers arrested in November 1987 and of membership of the New People 's Army ( NPA ) , the armed wing of the outlawed Communist Party .
was released on bail on 13 December 1990 .
The previous May , 13 of his co-defendants were acquitted and released unconditionally on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence for prosecution .
al-Faris , `` Ali Al-Lail , Salah Nisfan , Hussein and Hatim al-Saddiq are Muslims in Saudi Arabia .
AI believes they are held because they opposed the government 's policy towards the community .
Three Moroccan prisoners of conscience remain prison .
Ali Idrissi was given a 15-year sentence for poems about social injustice and political oppression in Morocco , deemed by the state to constitute a crime against internal security .
Mohamed Srifi , a literature student , was sentenced in 1977 to 30 years `` imprisonment for advocating that Morocco become a socialist republic .
Assistant teacher Habib Ben Malek was sentenced in the same trial in 1977 to 20 years ' imprisonment .
They are all serving their sentences in Kenitra Central Prison .
AI has received no new information about six members of the Islamic Liberation Party imprisoned in Libya since 1973 for belonging to an illegal organization .
In Iran Marian Firouz , a writer and translator in her mid-70s , has remained since 1983 for her non-violent political activities .
Ali Ardalan , a retired civil servant in his mid 70s arrested in June 1990 , remains in prison and there is concern his ill-health .
His `` crime `` was to sign an open letter to President Rafsanjani government failures to uphold rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran .
Zikri Nafkhosh Mustafa , Nabi Muhammad Shukr , Jabbar Rashid and Ja'far Tamar Mahmud are four of 315 Kurdish children and youths who `` disappeared `` after being arrested in Iraq in August 1983 .
Appeals on their behalf have been suspended because of the current situation in Iraq .
Daniel , and Pavlos Xidis , three Jehovah 's Witnesses , are still serving four-year sentences in Greece for refusing to perform military service .
They are not due for release 1992 , and are among some 400 young men in Greek prisons for their refusal on religious grounds to perform military service .
Kwame Karikari , Ghana : December 1988 .
, Cameroon : released from labour camp in January 1991 after being held for more than six years without charge or trial .
Khonje , Malawi : February 1991 , having been detained for two years after making remarks which were interpreted as critical of the Life President .
Dr George Mtafu , Malawi : January 1991 .
He is Malawi 's only neuro-surgeon .
Klymchak , USSR : pardoned and November 1990 .
He no longer wishes to emigrate and is planning to write his memoirs .
Ismail Mehmedov Hyuseyinov , Bulgaria : released from exile , May 1989 .
FREE IN THE AMERICAS
Manuel Gonz & aacute ; lez and Lidia Gonz & aacute ; lez Garc & iacute ; a , Cuba : released on expiry of their sentences , Manuel in January 1990 and in November 1989 .
Mohamed , Brunei : January 1990 after swearing an oath of allegiance to the , the Government , and the laws of the state of Brunei .
Vincent Cheng and Two Lung , Singapore : conditionally released in June 1990 .
FREE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
Amos , detained without trial from August 1986 to February 1989 .
He was finally released on 19 October 1989 .
DO N'T FORGET TO WRITE
THE CRIMES THAT GOVERNMENTS COMMIT ARE AN OUTRAGE AGAINST ALL HUMANITY .
BUT EVERY DAY WE HEAR THE SAME EXCUSES FROM GOVERNMENTS .
THE VICTIMS DESERVE IT .
THE END JUSTIFIES THE MEANS .
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS .
TWO OUT OF EVERY THREE GOVERNMENTS STILL TORTURE THEIR OWN PEOPLE .
Amnesty International does not want to hear any more excuses , from governments or from anybody else .
The horrors must be stopped everywhere once and for all .
Human rights can be won - even against overwhelming odds .
We have seen it happen .
Amnesty International is launching its 30th Anniversary for 30 prisoner cases around the world in 1991 .
Tens of thousands of Amnesty members and supporters over 100 countries will be writing letters to governments about these particular cases .
Out of the list we have selected the following five cases for appeals by members of the British Section .
Please write courteous letters to the heads of the governments - and let us know of any replies that you receive .
Sentenced to 30 years for his peaceful political views
He was accused of calling for the violent overthrow of the monarchy .
Srifi was a member of a banned left wing group Ila'l-Amam ( Forward ) .
Tell the King that Mohamed Srifi 's only crime seems to have been the expression of his peaceful political views .
Ask that he is released immediately .
for believing that her country should be run differently .
Vera Chirwa and her husband Orton are British-trained lawyers , who played a leading role in the struggle for Malawi 's independence in 1964 .
They went to Tanzania for 17 years following Orton 's sacking as a cabinet minister after a dispute with the President , and lived there for 17 years .
Orton Chirwa formed an opposition party in exile .
The couple to Malawi in 1981 .
The authorities claim they entered to try and overthrow the government .
The Chirwas say they came to see a sick relative .
They were , of treason and sentenced to death , later to life imprisonment .
Tell the President that you have read about their case , that their trial was unfair - even the Appeal Court agrees on this - and ask that they are released immediately .
MARIA NONNA SANTA CLARA
`` `` with a colleague while
working for a community organization .
Draw her attention to the case of ecumenical community worker Maria N. Santa Clara and her colleague Llenarasas who were arrested by men in clothes in a village near Naga City on 26 April 1989 .
Maria was last seen shouting for help inside a military jeep that evening .
Her family heard she had been taken to the Regional Military camp in Legaspi City .
She has not been seen since .
Members of her family have received death threats .
Ask the President for prompt government action to establish her whereabouts , and an independent enquiry into the `` disappearances `` and the death threats .
since 1981 for advocating democracy
Wang Xizhe , a factory worker from , was an activist in the pro-democracy movement in China who helped to write and put up a 100-metre newspaper wall in his city in 1974 which attracted worldwide interest .
He was arrested and for two years in 1977 .
In April 1981 he was again arrested for articles he had written in association with democracy activist , tried in May 1982 and to prison .
's wife is allowed to see him for 45 minutes twice a year .
Tell the President that you have not forgotten about Wang and other Pro-Democracy Movement activists who are for the peaceful exercise of their right to freedom of expression .
Ask that they are released immediately .
Please write to :
Bookshop owner Abd Al - was arrested by Israeli security forces in the Beach Refugee Camp in August 1990 .
He was accused of leaflets for an outlawed organization , the PLFP , which he denies .
He was taken to the Interrogation wing of Gaza Prison .
He was access to a lawyer for over three weeks .
He stated that during this period he was interrogated and on a daily basis .
He was for five days on end .
His hands were manacled behind his back except when he ate or slept .
Tell the President that you have read about Abd Al-Ru'uf 's allegation that he was tortured , and about his lawyer 's complaint .
Ask for this claim to be investigated , and find out whether anyone has been found responsible and to justice .
Each of the people whose story follows is a prisoner of conscience .
Each has been arrested because of his or her religious or political beliefs , , sex , ethnic origin or language .
None has used or violence .
Their continuing detention is a violation of the United National Universal Declaration of Human Rights .
International appeals can help to secure the release of these prisoners or to improve their detention conditions .
In the prisoners ' case , letters to the authorities should be worded carefully and courteously .
You should stress that your concern for human rights is not in any way politically partisan .
In no circumstances should communications be sent to the prisoner .
Hamadi Jebali : a 51-year-old newspaper editor from , he was sentenced by the military court in Tunis on 31 January 1991 to one year 's imprisonment for publishing an article calling for the abolition of military courts .
Hamadi Jebali was charged with defamation of a judicial institution under the Tunisian Press Code , under which prior authorization by the Ministry of Interior is required to publish any newspaper or periodical .
The Press further requires that the first printed copy of each issue be submitted to the Ministry of Interior which can then intervene to stop distribution .
The issue of Al-Fajr in which the article appeared was apparently approved by the Ministry of .
However , the Ministry of Defence to prosecute Hamadi .
The Tunisian authorities ordered the newspaper Al-Fajr to close until further notice on 8 February 1991 .
Hamadi Jebali 's sentence was confirmed on 6 March 1991 by the Cassation court .
This is the only court of appeal for cases tried by the military court , and looks only at points of law and not at facts and findings , thus providing a restricted appeal .
This sentence may be added to the new one-year term .
Please send courteous letters appealing for his immediate and unconditional release to :
Mohamed Abbad : a 37-year-old student and ex-president of the Nationale des Etudiants Marocains ( UNEM ) , National Union of Moroccan Students , he is serving a 15-year prison sentence in Safi Prison .
Mohamed Abbad is one of 31 people tried in May 1984 in demonstrations in January 1984 against price and the imposition of an examination fee for the examination .
They were reportedly arrested without several days the demonstrations , held incommunicado and in garde & agrave ; vue detention .
Mohamed Abbad was sentenced to 15 years ' imprisonment on charges including conspiracy to overthrow the government and leaflets at disturbing internal security .
The prosecution 's evidence consisted of statements allegedly extracted under torture , and confiscated literature .
He denied all the charges against him possession of the literature which he said was either on sale in bookstores or did not advocate violence .
Mohamed Abbad remains in prison with 17 of the 31 .
On 26 March 1991 he was returned to Safi Prison and in protest he began a hunger-strike which resulted in his into a coma , due to his illness , a few days later .
He is now in hospital in .
Please send courteous appealing for his release , if possible in or to :
PEOPLE 'S REPUBLIC OF
People 's Republic of Father Jin Dechen : the 71-year-old Vicar-General of diocese , Henan Province , he was sentenced in July 1982 to 15 years ' imprisonment for `` counterrevolutionary `` offences .
Fr Jin was first arrested in the late 1950s , when many Catholics were detained for proclaiming their loyalty to the Vatican .
The detentions followed the formation of an official Patriotic Association ( PCA ) , of the Church of Rome , to bring Catholic affairs under the control of the Chinese Government .
Fr Jin was released in 1973 , but under strict surveillance .
He was arrested again in December 1981 .
As well as maintaining his allegiance to Rome , Fr Jin is reported to have spoken out against government policies on contraception and abortion .
The authorities are reportedly prepared to release Fr Jin if he appeals for clemency on grounds such as ill-health .
Fr Jin has apparently refused - he is in good health despite his age - and is not prepared to admit to any criminal activity to secure his release .
He is currently held at the No. 3 provincial prison at in .
Please write courteous letters appealing for Fr Jin Dechen 's release to :
Orlando Azcu & eacute ; Rodriguez : a 33-year-old cigar factory technician , he is serving a three-year sentence for advocating free elections .
Orlando Azcu & eacute ; Rodriguez was arrested on 5 April 1990 in Havana and to trial on 12 October on charges of making `` enemy propaganda `` .
He was found guilty and sentenced to three years ' imprisonment .
The 12 also refused to wear their prison uniform .
As a result , they were transferred to different prisons .
Orlando and two others were taken to `` Kilo 7 `` Maximum Security Prison in Camaguey where , on 17 January , they went .
They were said to have been forcibly dressed in the prison uniform and for at least 17 days with their arms to the cell to prevent them from removing the uniform .
Orlando Azcu & eacute ; was also said to have been beaten by prison at least three occasions .
In early February he was transferred to Pinar del R & iacute ; o Provincial Prison after agreeing to give up his protest and end his hunger-strike .
However , he again refused to wear his and was forcibly dressed and to the cell bars .
On 6 March he was transferred to the prison infirmary from skin problems and a dramatic fall in his blood sugar level from the earlier hunger-strike .
As of mid-April , he remained in the infirmary .
Please send appeals requesting his immediate and unconditional release to :
Nijazi Beqa : an ethnic Albanian from Kosovo , aged 29 , he is serving a four-year prison sentence in prison near .
Nijazi Beqa , a student of physics , with one child , was one of 10 ethnic Albanians from the area of in Kosovo in September 1988 .
They were charged with having formed a `` hostile `` organization at securing republic status for Kosovo province .
Kosovo , a province of the Yugoslav Republic of Serbia , borders on Albania and most of its population are ethnic Albanians .
Nijazi Beqa and his co-defendants were accused of having joined an illegal organization , of having distributed `` hostile propaganda materials `` and of petitions of a `` hostile `` nature to officials and outside Yugoslavia .
At their trial in Pristina in February 1989 , all were found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment .
The Yugoslav federal law was changed in 1990 and many people for similar non-violent political activity were released .
It is reported that on 22 March Nijazi Beqa and five other political prisoners there went a against their conditions .
Please write for the immediate and unconditional release of Nijazi to :
Olivier Nwaha Binya'a : a Jehovah 's Witness , he has been detained without charge or trial May 2984 because of his religious beliefs .
Olivier Nwaha Binya'a appears to be held in indefinite administrative detention without any opportunity to challenge his imprisonment .
A 1970 presidential decree banning the movement was apparently prompted by the abstention by Jehovah 's Witnesses from a presidential election .
Since 1970 hundreds of Jehovah 's Witnesses have been detained without charge or trial for up to five years .
In 1983 AI of the release of a group of Jehovah 's Witnesses who had been held without trial since 1978 .
In December 1984 at least 80 Jehovah 's Witnesses were arrested in Limb & eacute ; , southwest Cameroon , after holding an unauthorized religious meeting .
which is used mainly f or political prisoners and others in administrative detention .
His health has deteriorated ; the prison diet is poor and medical treatment inadequate .
Please send courteous letters appealing for his immediate release to :
HOW DOES AMNESTY ABOUT ESTABLISHING WHETHER A PRISONER IS INDEED A PRISONER OF CONSCIENCE ?
WHAT ARE OUR SOURCES OF INFORMATION ?
Governments , as a rule , do not publicize their rights violations .
On the contrary , using the tools of censorship , intimidation , disinformation and propaganda , they surround them with walls of silence and .
Amnesty 's job is to breach these walls , to discover the truth within , and then to act .
The immense task of , analysing and confirming allegations of rights violations from around the world to the Research Department at the International Secretariat , Amnesty 's headquarters in London .
`` We are obviously not there when someone is being tortured or killed .
When we hear of such cases , we investigate and draw as many sources as possible to find out what happened & hellip ;
In one it 's very much like good investigative journalism , `` explains Malcolm Smart , Head of Research at the IS .
The information comes to the IS through myriad channels , some of them formal - over 1 , 100 newspapers , journals , government bulletins and transcripts of radio broadcasts are sifted - and others that are less predictable .
No reply was received but the group later had been released .
Then earlier this year the group received a reply from another prisoner at Shalla who had been given their letter to by mistake .
AI discovered from his letter the appalling conditions at Shalla , including a water shortage and rampant diseases .
The letter-writer is an orthopaedic surgeon who was taken a plane as he was about to make a short visit to the UK he had been a post-graduate student .
This was in September 1989 and he has been in prison since .
He enclosed a list of the 28 political prisoners still at the prison .
A vital source of first hand information is generated by the many missions and research trips Amnesty sends to countries each year for on-the-spot investigations and to observe trials , meet prisoners and to government officials .
During the first 11 months of 1990 AI sent 68 delegates to 50 countries ranging from Jordan to Nepal , from the USA to Romania .
Despite the difficulties of getting into and travelling many of these countries - due to poor roads , curfews , civil wars , monsoons - researchers often uncover information and testimony they would never otherwise obtain .
In the Philippines last year , an investigation team found two `` `` women who had been missing for several months .
The government had not acknowledged their arrest but the team had heard rumours of the women 's whereabouts in a military camp and in fact found them there .
When Amnesty International visited Yemen in October 1990 to prepare for government talks , they heard reports of thousands of Yemenis being expelled from Saudi Arabia , some after being tortured .
The delegates went to the border and spent three days there screening hundreds of people and conducting in-depth interviews with many of them .
The organization urgently appealed to the Saudi king to stop the torture and brought the plight of the victims to international attention .
On several occasions , however , delegates have faced obstruction and harassment in carrying out their research .
An AI mission to Argentina in November 1976 , led by Lord Avebury , was followed everywhere by twenty plainclothes policemen who questioned , intimidated and even detained a number of people whom they meet .
On one to two refugee hostels , the delegates were accompanied by four pick-up trucks containing sixteen armed men , whose presence did little to reassure the refugees and encourage communications .
In one notorious case in July 1966 , Nils , a Danish lawyer on an AI mission to Guinea to enquire prisoners of conscience became himself .
He was arrested shortly his arrival and was detained without trial September when he was sentenced to ten years ' hard labour for alleged espionage .
He was released 22 hours after sentencing a special amnesty declared by the President , Seku .
AI delegations have been expelled from countries after discovering evidence of rights and several countries , such as China , have refused Amnesty entry .
The Government denied all responsibility for her detention .
However in October 1974 this message - to a former inmate - was smuggled out of the infamous prison , Cuatro Alamos , on the inside of a cigarette packet .
I remember when I first met you at the house of terror ; what you gave me , all that you gave me .
In those moments when a light was a dream or a miracle , you were light in that darkness .
We were in adversity .
Today - a thousand trials later - I see you as before , as I know you are today , somewhere , always looking to the future .
We will meet again one day through the fog that we will clear .
Do not forget me dear comrade .
Of course , all sources of information must be confirmed as credible - sources could be using AI as a propaganda tool .
`` We are well aware of this danger and do n't blindly accept what people say , `` states Malcolm Smart .
`` It comes down to applying a judgement based on the background knowledge we 've acquired from 30 years of and rights `` .
Amnesty knows , for example , what the long term pattern of abuse is in a country : the known torture methods , the likely victims , the agencies regularly violations .
This background experience is coupled with knowledge of a country 's laws , constitution and judicial process and political and historical background .
Amnesty also has its own checks which ensure that all its major reports are passed through several levels of approvals , often up to the Secretary General himself .
It is also AI 's practice to give its material to governments before publication for their views and additional information and the organization will publish these in its reports .
`` I 'd be delighted if governments could prove all our reports , if that means that rights are n't being violated , `` Smart said .
`` but invariably , even when we have needed to correct or update details in our reports , the sad fact remains that the portrait of horror has been shown to be true and if anything , . ``
Above : AI staff members in Northern Thailand en route to interview Burmese refugees .
Opposite : ( ) AI delegation to Bangladesh , 1988 ; ( ) Secretary General and researchers POC Raul Diaz Tejera in Cuba ; ( right ) of people waiting to present testimonies to AI delegation in Guatemala .
There are over 2 , 300 inmates on America 's death : all have found themselves caught up in the nightmare is the US capital law system .
By Piers Bannister .
Three years of being a member of the Campaign Team at AI had not prepared me for seeing human rights abuses first hand .
President Bush 's recent pronouncements on what is and moral during the war left me feeling empty and bitter .
having been in the US 's `` yard `` I know how little attention is paid to those issues there .
The violence in America is frightening .
Homicides reached 23 , 000 in 1990 , an increase of 15 per cent on the previous year .
Drugs , poverty and the availability of hand guns all play their part .
But rather than address these basic problems , politicians look for the quick `` fix `` - anything that sounds good in a sound-bite will do .
Unfortunately , increased use of the death penalty appears to be the most popular solution .
In practice , however , issues such as the colour and social standing of the victim will also play a major part .
Also , if the DA is coming to the end of his/her four-year term , seeking the death penalty may improve their chances of re-election .
Once accused of murder , the defendant will almost certainly have a problem finding an attorney .
law is much more complicated - but far less lucrative - than `` ordinary `` law , so attorneys not specialise defence and are reluctant to take cases .
Also , attorneys may be putting themselves up for huge amounts of emotional strain , knowing that their clients stand to lose more than their liberty .
Since almost all those on death come from impoverished backgrounds they lack the funds to hire their own attorney and will be by the Court .
When the case comes to trial the inexperienced attorney ( a good lawyer may have managed to get the charge reduced to straight murder ) will be faced by a prosecutor who may well specialize in law .
The first part of proceeding will be the jury selection , known as the vior dire .
The jury will be `` death `` ( in the case of Alabama capital law ) : all jurors have to believe in capital punishment , and be prepared to sentence someone to death .
Since black people in the southern states have suffered more injustices at the hands of the law they tend to be less likely to hand death sentences .
Therefore the prosecution will strike blacks from the jury .
Although this is technically against the rules , it is still common practice .
Amazingly enough , all these reasons were found acceptable by the judge .
If you are found guilty , the trial enters into its next very complicated part - the phase .
A good defence lawyer would now be armed with all the mitigating circumstances of your life : mental records , character witnesses , & hellip ; any why your life should be spared .
In reality , most attorneys have made almost no preparation for this phase and do not really understand it .
Jurors in the case of Dalton Prejean were unaware of his long-term mental problems when sentencing him to death .
At least one member of the jury said he would not have given a sentence of death ( which must be unanimous ) had he known had suffered prolonged mental and physical abuse from his guardians .
Once sentenced to death the nightmare gets worse : very little care is taken with the inmate 's emotions .
When Roger Collins was sentenced to death aged 18 he had no idea what would happen next .
He recalls , `` I was sentenced I thought I 'd be killed straight away .
Even when I went to prison it was n't explained to me .
I sat my cell expecting to be called out for execution at any moment .
I remember feeling really happy when I was told I had at least six or seven years to live .
That makes me angry now . ``
Conditions on most death rows are appalling .
In Alabama 's West Jefferson Prison inmates are kept in tiny cells , with the bare minimum of furniture .
There is no outside view of any sort and the only time they leave the cell is for weekend from relatives , bi-daily showers or for 45 minutes ' daily exercise .
It is not surprising that many inmates want to give up their appeals .
The hardest two hours of my life were spent trying to persuade David Nelson to take up his appeals .
David had decided to seed `` voluntary `` execution - to drop all appeals and allow his execution to take place .
His attorney had managed to get him to take them up again and I went to the prison to have the necessary papers signed .
During the period the prison authorities had taken David 's visitor his visiting list causing him to drift into despair .
two hours Ii managed to get David to sign the papers knowing full well that , after over 12 years of in those conditions , I would probably want to die myself .
Those awaiting execution will spend their last days almost entirely .
They will be moved to the `` death house `` into a room is often adjacent to the electric chair where they may hear the chair being tested at regular intervals .
Some states even go to the trouble of having two switches , one a `` `` , so that everyone can say , `` it was n't me who actually him `` .
It is a separate tragedy altogether , in a country where there is no nation health service , anything up to three million dollars can be spent killing someone .
While over 2 , 300 people wait death countrywide to see if they will die or not , we can only hope that the US comes to its senses soon .
Prisoners executed in Arizona during the 1920s .
The gas chamber , Maryland .
A checker game on death .
Amnesty 's major Sri Lanka ( September-December 1990 ) succeeded , against considerable obstacles , in bringing the tragedy of Sri Lanka to the attention of the world , and generate some fresh signs of change .
The Government of Sri Lanka has shown itself to be increasingly sensitive to the outcry its appalling rights the last decade .
However , it has yet to take concrete steps to stop atrocities , or bring their perpetrators to justice .
These dreadful events took place in the south of Sri Lanka , which is dominated by the majority Sinhalese population .
From 1987-1990 an uprising by the Sinhalese Janatha Vimukthi Perammuna ( JVP ) Movement was ruthlessly suppressed by the government .
The repression continues today , albeit on a smaller scale .
`` Disappearances `` occur in Sinhalese parts of the island and mutilated bodies are still dumped road sides .
They have made it clear that from October 1991 disbursements will be conditional on improvements in the rights of the Sri Lankan government .
This aid money - worth US & dollar ; 1 billion per annum - is crucial to the fulfilment of the government 's economic policies .
There have been some events which give qualified cause for optimism .
Perhaps most important is the development of a `` Mothers `` Front `` to campaign for investigations into the `` disappearances `` .
Modelled on similar organizations in Argentina and Central America , it consists mainly of mothers whose husbands , sons and daughters have `` disappeared `` or are known to have been murdered by the government or the JVP .
Although headed by opposition MPs , it has grown independently on a national basis and held its first large scale in Colombo in late February 1991 .
One of the inspirations behind the Front is Dr Manorani whose son , the well-known journalist and broadcaster Richard de Zoysa , was and a February 1990 .
Dr Manorani spoke at a number of Amnesty meetings last autumn .
The Sri Lankan government has moved to try to counter the criticisms of its rights .
In November , a Presidential Task Force on human rights was set up , consisting of senior figures close to President Premadasa .
Its main function , however , appears to be to present a better image of Sri Lanka to the outside world .
More promising was the inauguration in January 1991 of a Commission of Enquiry into new cases of `` disappearance `` .
This Commission consists of five senior members of the judiciary and legal profession .
Its 12-month brief is to investigate all new reports of `` disappearance `` .
While way short of Amnesty International 's request for investigations into all `` disappearances `` , this initiative is welcomed as a modest first in the direction .
The government has at last acknowledged that `` disappearances `` do take place and that it is a problem which needs addressing , and Amnesty International expects to be cases for investigation by the Commission .
Two AI delegates attended a conference in Colombo from 11 to 16 March on trades union and human rights in South Asia as guest speakers .
While there , they also met government officials and discussed possibilities for future access by AI to Sri Lanka .
Amnesty was last access to the country in 1982 .
The government subsequently that `` a research to Sri Lanka would be considered favourably if a formal request were made `` .
This pattern of greater flexibility toward outside investigation of rights is also shown by the Sri Lankan government 's acceptance of visits by both the UN on Extra-Judicial Executions and the UN Working Group on Disappearances .
These are now due to occur in 1991 , having been postponed on several occasions over the few years .
Unfortunately , even these modest advances apply only to the south of Sri Lanka , the focus of Amnesty 's campaign last autumn .
The main opposition group in this region is the armed Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) whose political aim is a separate Tamil homeland ( Eeelam ) in North-East Sri Lanka .
The conflict has continued , with varying degrees of intensity , for over 10 years .
Predictably , the main sufferers flared once more in June 1990 have been the populations - Tamil , Sinhalese and Moslem .
The population in the north and east are now living terrible conditions .
Repression by the Sri Lankan security forces in the eastern province has been savage and widespread .
concerted action and investigation by the government can right these tragic injustices that continue to occur .
Above : A schoolboy shows a drawing he made of helicopters strafing his home town .
: A hired gunman at a United National Party election 1989 .
Buddhist monk covers his eyes amid tear gas fired by the security forces during a demonstration against the Indo-Sri Lanka in Colombo , 1987 .
An LTTE leader in Vavuniya , carrying a cyanide capsule his neck .
The instructs its cadres to swallow cyanide if captured .
I had seen her before , but only in silhouette , anonymous , as she spoke out about the inhuman conditions of political prisoners in Morocco 's dungeons .
We met a wild , windy day near the Ferry in a port on the South Coast .
She is a small , passionate , very striking young woman with black eyes and a glittering smile , talking ten to the dozen in a strong accent .
She told me that she was eight years old , the eldest of six children , the security men came to the army camp to arrest her father , an officer in the army , in 1972 .
He was accused of involvement in one of two military coups in Morocco which had attempted to overthrow King Hassan II .
Her mother was only about 21 at the time - she had been when only 13 .
The family were then living in the military camp at .
A number of the officers arrested were executed almost immediately .
Her father was sentenced to death .
Despite being repeatedly arrested and brought back home , and beaten by the police , she finally got to see the King by throwing herself into the road in front of the Royal car .
However , the father 's sentence was changed to one of life imprisonment .
At first the men were held in Kenitra Central Prison .
The family were able to visit him once or twice a week .
There they would meet many other relatives of the arrested men .
A close relationship developed among the visitors .
One day in August 1973 , without warning , visitors were not allowed to enter the prison .
They were told that the prisoners were not there any more .
The relatives of the 61 men who had vanished lobbied ministers and the King 's sister and brother .
It was an extremely sensitive matter , they were told .
But there was absolutely no news of the men .
At last , in 1975 , the wife of one of the prisoners , a former air force pilot , telephoned the young woman 's mother to come to her house quickly .
The woman showed her a bundle of tiny packages , secret notes , from some of the disappeared men , smuggled out of their jail by one of the guards .
The guard was still in the house .
The young woman 's father was one of the letter-writers .
His note consisted of a few words , impersonal , noncommittal , on a tiny scrap of paper written with a burned matchstick .
But he was alive .
In his note he asked for medical help - some vitamins , eye-drops , `` as I ca n't go out `` - and for some money .
It seemed that the men pooled their money to help survive .
Her mother tried to persuade the woman who had received the letters to let her talk with this guard ; a man who was actually in touch with her husband .
Perhaps he could tell how he was , or where ?
She could see him through the shutters - a big man , a Berber , a kind-looking man with bright blue eyes and tattoos .
But the woman said he would simply not risk meeting her - it was too dangerous .
One of the group of relatives , an old woman who walked very slowly , also had a letter .
Her son was very ill .
She decided to try and visit him .
They had a vague idea the place was .
It was a very long right across the Atlas mountains and down to the edge of the desert .
Long before she reached the place , the car was stopped by the military .
`` There is no prison here .
Who told you there was a prison ? ``
They were taken away for .
`` Who is spreading these rumours ? `` they wanted to know .
The old woman 's son was one of the many prisoners who have subsequently died in the prison .
A year later a second note was among another group of notes that arrived for the relatives .
`` I received the materials that you sent . ``
In 1977 another letter came , then a long silence 1981 , then a letter in 1984 .
Sadly , the notes to money and medicines that had been sent by the family but not received in the prison .
Everything in the secret correspondence has to be tiny so it can be hidden in the palm of the hand : pills , passport pictures of the family .
The little notes are .
There is little real information .
You have to read between the lines .
The smuggled letters take three days ' journey to Rabat from the prison : some never arrive .
In November 1990 , a further letter arrived , saying the young woman 's father was ill : he wanted 150 , 000 Dirham , and his wife should give 100 , 000 Dirham to the guard .
`` Send me photographs of the children . ``
He wrote that he was lying a concrete floor ; he mentioned acute rheumatism , chronic bronchitis ; `` My ribs are tight , I have a lot of fever , I cough all the time .
I can not sleep at night & hellip ; my heart is weak & hellip ; my feet are heavy & hellip ;
I am unable even to say my prayers upright . ``
Twenty-nine of the prisoners have already died , Mohammed El Shamey has lost his mind , one has taken his own life .
Recently , an anonymous note , clearly composed from a dialogue between a prisoner and a sympathetic guard , was smuggled out .
It described where the prisoners were held : ; the people of appear to be hardly aware of it or too to talk about it .
It is said that the prison director steals the fuel to warm his own house in Meknes .
The note describes the walk downstairs to visit the cells .
You use a torch to see anything .
This first cell is now empty , and a second , and a third .
In the fourth cell there is a man with long dishevelled hair .
His clothes are in rags , and do not even cover his private parts .
`` they are medical care .
They sleep the floor without mattress or bedcover .
The smell is so terrible you want to throw up .
The men have been locked up in their cells day one of their imprisonment . ``
Clothes are changed once every three years .
They are unshaven , there is no barber .
The food is `` maigre `` ; cold coffee in the morning , with half a piece of bread , a thin soup of rotten vegetables , the evening meal pasta and the same soup .
has been the great forbidden subject in Morocco .
The prisoners have been held incommunicado for eighteen years .
The sentences of most of the military prisoners were years ago , but nobody is released .
No journalist will risk prison to put an article in the paper .
We finished our coffee and watched the seagulls whirling and shrieking the harbour in the spring sunshine .
In some cases of `` disappearance `` the whole family is held responsible for the `` crime `` of one of its members .
One notable example involved the `` disappearance `` of eight members of the family of General Mohammed .
Following his death in suspicious circumstances in 1972 , his widow and six children , together with a female cousin , `` disappeared `` .
Nothing was heard of them for fifteen years .
In February 1991 , they were released , but are still subject to restrictions on freedom of movement and association .
Right : A demonstration in the early 1980s by families of political prisoners .
Political prisoners do not receive fair trials in Morocco .
Confidence is the .
President de Klerk said so in London at the end of April .
If de Klerk can convince the world that South Africa has come far enough in improving its record on human rights , sanctions will be lifted and crucial foreign capital will start into the country .
However , the State President is not as confident as he would like to be .
To coincide with his latest visit to Europe , Amnesty released a document outlining the apparent lack of accountability of the security forces .
Deaths in detention are not phenomena of the distant past : last year two people were reported as having died in custody .
Those who dies last year were held under this provision .
Detentions under section 29 continue , and the government on March 18 16 people were then under that provision .
Even more prisoners , about 60 , are currently being held under equivalent provisions in the nominally independent `` homelands `` of the Transkei and Bophuthatswana .
The death of one under interrogation at a police station in January 1990 has yet to be properly investigated .
A closed hearing in February this year concluded that no-one could be held responsible for the death .
However , with various groups suggesting police complicity in township violence , many blacks will find little security in a larger police force .
Despite the political reforms , many members of the security forces are carrying on business as usual .
Accusations continue of security force involvement in covert assassinations .
On March 27 , in Alexandra township outside Johannesburg , at least 14 people were killed when men armed with automatic weapons fire on mourners at a night-time vigil .
The police had been asked by the organizers of the vigil to provide protection after an incident earlier in the evening about 200 suspicious-looking men appeared outside the house where the vigil was being held .
According to those at the vigil , the police only checked on the hose twice before the massacre occurred at 4am .
Despite the hype over the release of political prisoners , reports of police misconduct do not inspire confidence in the majority of South Africans , or in those all-important foreign investors .
Police attack black workers in Johannesburg .
Asylum-seekers attempting to enter the UK many difficulties with our procedures .
`` Please do n't send me back .
Kill me here `` .
He was afraid of being sent back to Ethiopia , where close family members had been imprisoned and tortured .
Prior to this incident , in April 1990 three Sri Lankan Tamils to seek asylum in the UK .
Unfortunately these are not isolated incidents .
Other cases are known to Amnesty International , asylum seekers travelling without valid travel documents have been prevented by airline personnel , sometimes with the knowledge of Immigration Officers , from applying for political asylum in this country .
Also in April 1990 , six Sri Lankan Tamils were prevented by staff from disembarking at Heathrow : in August 1990 , four Eritreans were prevented from leaving a Czechoslovak Airlines .
There can be little doubt that such examples represent the tip of an iceberg .
What has forced airline staff to take on this policing role of checking the travel documents of would-be asylum seekers ?
In 1987 the British Government legislation which imposes fines on airlines bringing passengers to the UK without valid documents .
The Immigration ( Carriers ' Liability ) Act provides for a fine of & pound ; 1 , 000 per passenger lacking such documentation .
It is thought that the Government may soon double this fine .
Since its implementation , totalling more than & pound ; 24 million have been imposed under the Act and clearly some airlines have adopted practices at minimizing the number of penalties incurred .
When people are from fear of imprisonment , or death , they will use any means available to reach a safe country .
For many people attempting to escape from state persecution , it is impossible to apply for a passport to the very authorities who are inflicting the persecution .
The need to obtain an entry visa from an embassy often situated far away could be dangerous and could therefore hinder departure .
In particular in recent years , the Government 's response to large numbers of people from state oppression is to impose visas on nationals of that country .
Subsequently in June 1989 a visa requirement was imposed on Turkish nationals more than 3 , 500 Turkish Kurds had sought asylum at UK ports .
In 1989 more than 2 , 600 Somalis asylum in the UK ; from August 1990 , Somali nationals could no longer transit the UK without visas .
In April 1991 a visa requirement was imposed on nationals of Uganda ; from January to September 1990 , some 1 , 960 Ugandan nationals asylum in the UK .
It is to be regretted that many of the Government 's measures relating to its asylum policy introduced in the few years , have been to discourage new arrivals .
Amnesty International has asked the Government on many occasions to lift those measures which obstacles in the path of asylum seekers attempting to gain access to the process .
We hope that in line with our recommendations , the Government will amend its procedures which obstruct the access to the process of those from violations of their basic rights .
Tamil protest at Heathrow in 1987
30 YEARS OF LOCAL GROUPS !
TODAY THERE ARE 4 , 200 LOCAL AMNESTY GROUPS AROUND THE WORLD .
315 OF THESE ARE IN THE UK , WORKING ON BEHALF OF 318 INDIVIDUALS AND RAISING MORE THAN & pound ; 260 , 000 A YEAR TO FURTHER AMNESTY 'S WORK .
How did it all begin ?
The response to this call was and has continued to be overwhelming .
The first local Amnesty groups ( the Eltham and Hampstead among them ) were formed only months after the launch in May 1961 .
From then on the number grew impressively .
By the end of 1961 there were 11 groups , nine in the UK , in Norway and in Australia .
In February 1963 there were already 180 groups worldwide .
There was also concern that groups were growing faster in the UK than in the rest of the world .
The number of UK groups reached 300 in the early 1980s and has remained that level ever since - groups of very high quality and certainly not based on `` ephemeral enthusiasms `` !
These early groups were `` Threes Groups `` because each adopted three prisoners , one from the East , from the West and from Afro-Asian countries .
In many cases a group would divide into sub-groups and more than three at a time .
At one point Manchester University group was working on 39 !
This did not mean , unfortunately , rights were being respected , but regimes around the world were using new methods of repression such as `` disappearances `` and extrajudicial executions .
Amnesty groups ' work to the challenge with new techniques such as networks focusing abuses in specific areas of the world and campaigns on whole countries or themes .
For example , a `` Murder by Governments Campaign `` in October 1983 in funeral with black `` coffins `` , , and candles in Diss , Norwich , Bognor Regis , and London .
How to find the money necessary to carry out Amnesty 's work has always been a worry , and from the very the Section Office asked groups for help in this area .
However , in the first few years groups did not appear to consider fundraising a priority .
A newsletter in 1964 complains that `` it is clear that the & pound ; 10 per annum is more than one group can manage . ``
It is extraordinary to consider nowadays groups manage a contribution of & pound ; 600 per annum !
The next year , 19675 , however , fundraising was already - Kensington Group arranged a film at the Kensington Library and raised & pound ; 81.15.0d .
There are some aspects of group which never change - the satisfaction receiving a letter such as this , for example :
`` & hellip ; suddenly I became free by some secret action , and now I am so happy I found your letter concerning my person .
I am thankful and happy that there was a strange and foreign soul about the destiny of a political prisoner in East Germany & hellip ; when we passed the border last night , I just cried . ``
( From a student released from an East Berlin in 1964 )
Anniversaries have also been celebrated before .
In 1971 groups were busy ways to mark Amnesty 's 10th birthday .
The Bristol group collected the signatures of 46 international figures to sell for Amnesty funds .
They tried 60 well-known personalities .
Harold Wilson was the first to reply - by post .
Groups were still being run by a very small section office .
On 28 May 1986 , Amnesty 's 25th Anniversary , St Clement Danes Church in the , London , rang 5 , 000 chimes , roughly one for every POC case Amnesty had worked on during the year .
Groups went in for all kinds of sponsored walks , knit-ins , beard-shavings , and .
The 25th Anniversary campaign had dramatic results : individual membership increased from 25 , 000 at the end of 1985 to 35 , 000 at the end of 1986 : a full 30 per cent in one year .
This year 's 30th Anniversary could be our chance to make the 90s the decade in which groups shoot ahead .
Help us achieve this : join your local group !
Above : Putney Group celebrated the release of their POC `` Slava `` Cherepanov in July 1989 .
Below : Procession in 1983 in Trafalgar Square before the Memorial Service in St Martins in the Fields organised by Amnesty International for the victims of political killings by governments .
Opposite : In April 1985 groups all over Britain get together to take part in a sponsored jailbreak from the Tower of London .
Without using any money , some of the escapees as far as North Wales , Yorkshire , and Scotland .
I have just received David Bull 's appeal for funds , with the short version of Amnesty 's report on Human Rights Violations in Iraqi Kuwait ( since August 1990 ) enclosed .
I feel Amnesty has to provide a quiet , more balanced overview of a region in order to maintain its impartiality and credibility , and to operate effectively .
ANGELA , Bognor Regis
as a group delegate and individual member in the vigorous AGM at Liverpool , I was surprised to see a religious service on the printed agenda , with the order of service available at the official information .
a private activity there could be no objection to Christian members calling their fellow-believers to prayer , and I suppose that I and fellow-members of the British Association could have similarly a non-official meeting .
But the universal character of Amnesty should surely bar the incorporation of any religious observance into its procedures .
ARTHUR JACOBS , Sevenoaks
I was delighted to see you had chosen a young man and woman with Down 's Syndrome to model shirts in the Spring 1991 catalogue .
I applaud your decision to employ them , and shall leave your catalogue in the staffroom tomorrow .
Congratulations on your insight .
JEAN MARTIN , Manchester .
As parents of a four-month-old daughter with Down 's Syndrome we have only recently become very aware of how handicapped children and adults are kept to the sidelines & hellip ; your catalogue makes a very welcome change .
JULIA AND PAUL JORDAN , Shaftesbury .
DURING PRISONER OF CONSCIENCE WEEK 1990 , SECOND YEAR PUPILS OF PEEBLES HIGH SCHOOL ABOUT AMNESTY 'S LETTER CAMPAIGN FROM THEIR AMNESTY GROUP .
THE PUPILS GOT THE MESSAGE , AND GOT .
HERE ARE TWO RESULTING LETTERS & hellip ;
I am writing to you about the case of Im Su-Kyong , who was arrested for ten years for attending a peace from North Korea to South Korea .
The thing is , she was arrested for ten years for going to North Korea without government permission .
I feel that this sentence is far too harsh .
For a woman , Kim Hyun-hui , was arrested and was to receive the death sentence for planting a bomb on a Korean Boeing 707 , killing all 115 people .
Yet she was pardoned , because she was an internationally famous actress .
Can you see the point I am trying to make ?
I hope so .
I am thirteen years old , and if ten years of my youth were taken over by four plain walls and nothing to do , I know how I would feel .
Try and think how you would feel if that happened to you .
Please , I am begging you , let her free .
Yours respectfully and sincerely , ALISON HENDERSON .
I am writing as I 'm puzzled as to why you have released Kim Hyun-hui who planted a bomb on a plane and killed 115 people but have imprisoned a girl for taking part in a peace .
To me this is odd as if I were the president of South Korea I would have imprisoned Kim Hyun-hui and as to me Kim Hyun-hui the more serious crime .
I would like this to be explained to me as I just do n't understand it .
Yours respectfully and sincerely , CHRISTOPHER SETH .
NEEDLES IN HAY : IS IT ART CRITICISM ?
What is art ?
Leo Tolstoy asked the question , and in 1898 his remarkable book with that title gave his reply .
He underlined the need for art to communicate what the artist has felt :
There are many more definitions of art besides Tolstoy 's own and those which he denounced .
Since art critics have these working assumptions in mind , and it is with their writing we shall be mainly concerned , we need to proceed without being distracted .
We shall not look into the myriad issues springing from problems of definition which are vital for philosophers and aestheticians .
Is it criticism ?
There is a massive amount of about art , only some of which can immediately be identified by a reader as criticism .
by the art critic of a newspaper is self-evidently criticism , in with the writing of music and theatre critics ; an exhibition can be treated almost in the same way as a performance .
Articles in magazines are less certainly described criticism , for their main topics may be personalities or history , and art may be only a small part of the writers ' account .
As the following chapters will show , the useful and helpful functions of art criticism will receive preference in the choice of what is quoted or discussed .
Is the text or part of the text written so that a reader will benefit a future encounter with a work of art ?
Some writing which is called art criticism will be helpful , some will not ; other writing will also be valuable , although whether it can be described art criticism may be disputable .
A famous passage of art criticism can be cited as one example entirely beyond dispute .
The author much of his life as a bachelor Fellow of Brasenose College Oxford ; his cloistered life was to , notably on classical antiquity and the Renaissance .
One of 's subjects for a perceptive essay was Leonardo da Vinci ; it gave special prominence to the painting now generally known as the Mona Lisa .
The following critical passage comes from this piece , first published in the Fortnightly in 1869 , and then in 1873 in Pater 's book , Studies in the History of the Renaissance .
La Gioconda is , in the truest sense , Leonardo 's masterpiece , the revealing instance of his mode of thought and .
In suggestiveness , only the Melancholia of is comparable to it ; and no crude symbolism disturbs the effect of its subdued and graceful mystery .
We all know the face and hands of the figure , its marble chair , in that circle of fantastic rocks , as in some faint light under sea .
Perhaps of all ancient pictures time has chilled it least .
's prose goes on to connect the picture with drawings by Verrocchio , speculate the artist and the sitter , and about how long the picture was in progress .
Then comes the peroration .
The presence that rose thus so strangely beside the waters , is expressive of what in the ways of a thousand years men had come to desire .
Hers is the head upon which all `` ends of the world are come `` , and the eyelids are a little weary .
It is a beauty wrought out from within upon the flesh , the deposit , little cell by cell , of strange thoughts and fantastic reveries and exquisite passions .
Set it for a moment beside one of those white goddesses of beautiful women of antiquity , and how would they be troubled by this beauty , into which the soul with all its maladies has passed !
Certainly Lady Lisa might stand as the embodiment of the old fancy , the symbol of the modern idea .
's book is a , and easy to find a library .
But if the books are arranged by subject , there is no certainty that The Renaissance will be put under `` art criticism `` .
Several other headings are equally possible , say aesthetics , English literature or Italian history .
The library user who looks for books of art criticism is not necessarily going to have an easy task .
Let us picture a girl entering through the impressive doors of the New York Library .
Her interest has been aroused by some new paintings which she has seen in a SoHo gallery , which a friend has compared unfavourably with the work of Lee Krasner .
The resources available to her are excellent ; the library has an extensive stock of books , long runs of periodicals , cuttings , and up-to-date facilities to find relevant material .
Among the sources she will find are critical reviews , articles , catalogues and books about New York painting of the 1940s and 1950s , which will remind her that Pollock died in 1956 .
There is no shortage of about Pollock ; like other star artists , he has an embarrassingly large number of apologists , but fortunately there are select bibliographies which can guide her to key publications .
There may , however , be questions in her mind about the choices open to her : how will the information in a catalogue differ from what is to be found in a monograph ?
How much of the books about Pollock will be biography and how much will be about his art ?
Among the magazine articles , which are most likely to be interesting to her ?
Will she find good reproductions of Lee Krasner 's work ?
Our American friend 's cousin in London is an art student .
Her college library has interesting books , as well as the latest art magazines .
Her course teacher has given her a reading list , and the library staff are good at students with all sorts of interests .
Happily her supervisor has guided more than one student through topics about Michelangelo , and has a route map prepared , including introductory and background books , but also passages from longer scholarly works .
Still , by , and looking at Lee Krasner 's pictures in New York galleries , she was able to defend an independent for her SoHo artist .
In London , it was a rather different story , since the literature available discrimination , much of it being historical and iconographic , establishing data of little interest to the art student .
ART CRITICISM AND ART HISTORY
Do art historians write about the past , while art critics write about the present ?
Things are not so simple , as some art historians write well about the present , with a generosity of and enriching to contemporary culture .
They are capable of assessing modern art in its own terms , partly from experience judging work of other periods within quite different terms .
Meyer Schapiro , who had a concern with Romanesque art , was an open-minded historian of this sort .
And he remembered the painter :
I used to meet him most often in the museums and galleries fixed in rapt contemplation of pictures with that grave , which was one of the beauties of his face .
As some poets are great readers , Gorky - exceptional among painters - was a fervent scrutinizer of paintings .
No interesting touch or invention of form escaped his eye .
He was equally at home in the Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art , keen in what was good in the arts of many ages and styles .
As for art critics , their newspapers need reviews of every sort of exhibition , whether modern or historical .
Even though critics may not be as learned as their art-historical colleagues , there is no good reason for their practised eyes to cloud over when looking at art of other periods .
Furthermore , artists who are also critics are especially likely to make vivid comments on the methods and techniques of old art .
The guards on the frontiers between art history and art criticism neither intruders nor escapers .
Indeed , there are some who feel that there should be no border , thinking back nostalgically to days when there was only one domain of art .
In some writing today , too , it is possible to find the words critic and historian being used interchangeably .
Art is after all the subject of attention for both critic and historian , even though the functions and methods of the two sorts of writer have drawn apart .
Fifty years ago they were in closer touch .
It was in 1936 that the first American edition of Lionello Venturi 's History of Art Criticism was published , containing material which could equally have found a place in a book about art history .
Venturi was a university teacher , son of a famous father , Adolpho , who had made a substantial contribution to the publication of documents of Italian art .
For , an important development in art criticism came in the eighteenth century which saw the foundation of aesthetics and the rise of philosophies for which art was an indispensable ingredient .
as he was in the 1930s , he expressed his pleasure at the extensive documentation and material available to the student of art , instancing the growth of libraries and art historical teaching .
If he were alive today , he would have even more for satisfaction .
Some of the main efforts of historians in the first decades of the twentieth century had been directed to putting order into a mass of material , analysing works and documents , and establishing historical data .
German art historians had begun much more systematically on this task than others .
Several art historians wrote syntheses of art historical information , which became standard works .
Roger Fry acknowledged German scholarship as a precursor of serious art historical studies in this century .
Fry was a connoisseur of Renaissance art , but also he defended Post-Impressionism ( a term he invented ) , was a painter , and published a monograph on C & eacute ; zanne .
In 1933 he wrote as follows a lecture at Cambridge University :
An enormous amount of work has been done and perhaps still more remains to be done in arranging works of art in exact sequence of time .
I am obliged to use the awkward and inadequate word `` Art-history `` for it .
Critical appreciation was desired by fry as a necessary part of a course in art history ; , and is today naturally included .
Later in the 1980s an American handbook took a more comprehensive view :
The goal of art history is first to place the work of art in history and then assess it in the light of its unique position .
Modern art historians strive to analyze , interpret , and evaluate works of art by identifying their materials and techniques , makers , time and place of creation , and or .
They inquire the who , what , , where , and why of the art ; often the object itself suggests which of these questions should be pursued .
According to this American guide , `` criticism is a many-levelled activity that comprises the historical , the recreative , and the judicial .
In all cases it seeks to pronounce value judgements , an exercise shunned by art history . ``
The signs are that the next few years will see some extensive soul-searching about art history ; several books have already appeared .
Art criticism seems more likely to remain in the shadows , out of the spotlight of academic controversy .
Apart from art criticism and art history , there exist several other types of about art .
This guide was extensively revised over nine years , and was republished in 1980 as a Guide to the Literature of Art History , for `` persons doing serious research in the field of art history `` .
Another sort of about art is what artists themselves have written , either about their own work or about other artists .
This may be by way of theory , or on more matter-of-fact lines about technique or such questions as composition .
Teachers of art are more likely to write books of instruction , and in their efforts to educate their students may make comments about the traditions they admire and from which they hope their students will learn .
One lesson for practical students is to analyse works .
A teacher 's list for analysing pictures may be something like that of the American educationalist Thomas Munro : first impressions of the picture as a whole , , and , , , , unity of design .
Books on art appreciation will also concern themselves with formal questions , as they have done since the beginning of the century .
In a book called How to Appreciate Pictures by R. C. Witt , written in 1902 , the chapter headings are not so different : , , and , composition , treatment , methods and materials .
A supplementary approach to school art instruction is to draw attention to the types of subject in art , such as portraiture , , .
This thematic method is combined in many introductory courses with formal analysis which is closer to the way that many artists describe pictures .
An example of an artist acting directly a critic is Bridget Riley , who selected a show of pictures from the collection at the National Gallery in London , in a series `` The Artist 's `` .
Bridget Riley came to prominence as an artist in the 1960s , when her dazzling patterned paintings were a clear success in British Op Art .
Her National Gallery choices of pictures were examples of problems to artists by colour , and in a video she demonstrated how these artistic problems had been solved .
Connections with her own practice as a painter were evident , even though her abstract compositions were very different in subject from the works of her chosen artists , who included Veronese and Poussin .
Her argument was that the subjects of the old master paintings could be disregarded by a painter who wished to find lessons for the present in the artistic practice of the past .
The artist critic in this case deliberately the historical context of the pictures she was discussing .
Any art critic may take such a position , but a historian almost never .
Even if historians are specifically interested in form , it is likely to be the history of forms , or the development of styles which will have attracted their attention .
The ground has been thoroughly explored the last 250 years , which is one estimate of the span of art critical and art historical activity .
Some authorities might argue for a shorter span , giving a title father of modern art criticism or W & ouml ; lflinn the key part in the development of art history .
The study of Oriental art in the West has fared less well .
A firm basis for the study of Oriental art came more slowly , and as we shall see , some of the differences of approach between East and West still require wider recognition .
Moreover , other cultures , such as those of Africa , have had to wait until even more recent times for recognition .
It is literature within the last three centuries , then , provides the main choices for a reader .
The advice here is that a reader should ignore what category of writing a book or article may come under , since helpful art criticism may be found in all sorts of sources .
The reader 's question of a book or an article should be what function the writing is able or unable to perform ?
Writing of many types may assist a reader who looks forward to an encounter with a work of art .
A RULE OF THUMB
It will by now have become evident that this book takes an unorthodox approach to art criticism .
There will be no to define exactly what art criticism is , or to set out a theory of criticism , beyond the suggestions of some differences in writings on art which have already been made .
Nor will a history of art criticism be attempted .
The stress of the book on a viewer 's encounter with a work of art , and how a prior reading of a piece of art criticism can improve that encounter .
To put the matter in a slightly different way , reading art criticism is a preparation for an aesthetic event .
In other words , there are no aesthetic objects , physical objects , which , when observed , are capable of stimulating an aesthetic event . ``
We can return for a moment to talk to the girl who went to Italy , and was overwhelmed by Michelangelo 's Sistine Chapel ceiling .
Her idea of the value of art criticism was a simple one .
In her there was a set of events which includes a work of art and looking at it .
There was a crucial sequence .
Michelangelo painted the ceiling .
Critics have visited the chapel and written about it .
This writing was discovered by her ; she read some material her visit , which prepared her a little for what she would see .
When she came to for her college project , she found other material ; this will enable her to enjoy the work more fully on a second .
In her about the Sistine Chapel , we can imagine our friend using a rule of thumb to distinguish what was helpful to her .
According to this , art criticism has three indispensable elements .
These are description , interpretation , and judgement .
Walter Pater 's account of the Mona Lisa can be used as an example .
's interpretation is justly , with its cornucopia of cultural references to Troy , Greece , Rome , the Middle Ages , as well as to Pagan gods and Christianity .
's judgement is decisive , that this picture is Leonardo 's masterpiece .
Art criticism at its most helpful does not stint the reader of any one of these elements .
To be aware of the limitations of different forms of publication is an advantage for the reader , who can by this means avoid unnecessary disappointments .
Description , interpretation and judgement are the subjects of separate chapters , where they are considered more detail .
Without anticipating this fuller discussion , it is worth making two or three immediately .
Description is a heading which includes both a description of the work itself and of the critic 's response to it .
The evaluation is a which places the work in the experience of the critic , and helps the reader to form a judgement .
The plan of the book , then , is simple .
After the first two chapters , it discusses where and how to read art criticism .
While this first chapter has outlined what that criticism is , the next gives sketches of half a dozen critical types .
So , it is to the critics themselves we turn next .
AMUSING AND POETIC : THE BEST CRITICISM
A FATHER OF MODERN CRITICISM
The qualities of a good critic are clear perception , fine sensibility and eloquence .
These same qualities are needed by lecturers , so it is no surprise that some excellent critical writings , such as many of John Ruskin 's books , were first read out from a lectern .
An art critic also needs a gift for persuasion , perhaps rather more than a head for exposition and argument .
Evocative description can be an effective weapon in the armoury of a critic , besides which a light touch of wit or some conversational sparkle do no harm .
We can start with , sometimes to be a father of modern criticism .
He earned this disputable title by his thoughtful approach to critical issues and the undeniable distinction of his critical practice .
His writings on art include several reviews of the Paris Salons , which were either published in booklets or in journals such as the fran & ccedil ; aise .
The custom of about the Salons was well established , and had inspired brilliant writing by such an important figure in the eighteenth century as .
By the 1850s the tradition had declined , so that was seeking to give new life to a decayed literary genre .
He asserted that a modern artist should be in tune with his times , careful to avoid hackneyed subjects .
Guys ' drawings appeared in such papers as the Illustrated London News , a very successful venture begun in 1842 , the decade which also saw the founding of satirical journals like or .
The illustrated periodical was a phenomenon of a world which saw as on Guys ' paper :
Natural and more than , beautiful and more than beautiful , strange and with an impulsive life like the soul of its creator & hellip ;
He is looking for that quality which you must allow me to call `` modernity `` ; for I know of no better word to express the idea I have in mind .
He makes it his business to extract from fashion whatever element it may contain of poetry within history , to distil the eternal from the transitory & hellip ;
By `` modernity `` I mean the ephemeral , the fugitive , the contingent , the half of art whose other half is the eternal and the immutable .
Modernity also had other manifestations .
The real benefit of himself on the art of his contemporaries is the chance of recovering some of the excitement the poet felt .
It is an additional pleasure to recognise his prophetic power of divining the best art was to be found .
argued for modernity , but he also strongly believed that a critic has the right to be partisan .
He asserted the fact of the existence of differences in taste .
In about , he placed his hero in a pantheon of artists who were masters of great decorative painting :
Which is the greatest of these great men who differ so much from one another ?
The critic , too , according to has a right to be independent , and to work without a system `` which is a kind of damnation which forces one to a perpetual recantation `` .
But , seeing that a fine picture is nature reflected by an artist , the criticism which I approve will be that picture reflected by an intelligent and sensitive mind .
Thus the best account of a picture may well be a sonnet or an elegy & hellip ; as for criticism properly so-called & hellip ;
A partial and passionate critic also writing in the middle of the nineteenth century was John Ruskin , as to Turner as was to .
He may be taken as an example of a first type of critic , the advocate .
Ruskin was a deeply observant man , a close student of the natural world , and capable of a profound and subtle interpretation of Turner 's art .
This is a passage about The Slave Ship , painted by the artist in 1840 ; it comes from Modern Painters .
It is a sunset on the Atlantic , after a prolonged storm ; but the storm is partially lulled , and the torn and rain-clouds are moving scarlet lines to lose themselves in the hollow of the night .
I believe , if I were reduced to rest Turner 's immortality upon any single work , I should choose this .
Ruskin wrote fluently and seriously , often at length .
He was a successful lecturer , much in demand , and put lectures together to make up books ; certainly a book is the ideal medium for a critic 's advocacy of an artist .
Nowadays appreciations are often , perhaps into a catalogue introduction , or possibly fitted into the preface for a book of illustrations .
These sites of criticism are cramping for persuasive advocacy , even if excellent use is sometimes of them .
The connections and friendships of Surrealism can also be instanced as opportunities for advocacy .
Parisian cultural life between the wars was close-knit ; writers and artists gave each other mutual support .
At the beginning of Surrealism it was argued that there was no Surrealist painting , but this dogma was soon reversed .
Surrealist painting had publicity value , especially when executed by a showman like Salvador Dali , who married the former wife of the poet Paul & Eacute ; luard .
Another famous figure , Joan Mir & ouml ; , initially praised by Breton as `` the most Surrealist `` painter , later his Surrealist phase as having lasted only for a matter of months .
A personal friend of an artist may have a real advantage in criticism , as he may learn artistic intentions which are not explained to others .
This places a critic in a privileged position , but also with a responsibility to make clear whether views expressed are those of the critic or those of the artist .
A second type of critic may be called the progressive .
The archetype here is Guillaume , special pleader for modernism before the first World War .
has been aptly called a company promoter of the avant-garde , responsible , as it were , for the successful flotations in Paris of Cubism and futurism .
He welcomed the varied responses of artists and writers to modern life , and in his own poetry innovations .
He believed that Paris was seeing a forward in the arts .
Writing on were unaffected by French bourgeois taste .
Like , they saw a rift between the old century and the new .
Gertrude Stein later wrote a book on Picasso , in which she put the point like this :
One must never forget that the reality of the twentieth century is not the reality of the nineteenth century , not at all and Picasso was the only one in painting who felt it , the only one .
More and more the struggle to express it intensified .
In its slightly earlier day , pointillism had also had a progressive artistic programme .
In arguing for pointillism , he quoted the scientific treatises consulted by and even mathematical equations .
He made these three-liners into sardonic comments which undercut the banalities of the newspaper in which they appeared .
a critic , his descriptions of paintings were phrased with exceptional care .
For example , this is how he evoked Seurat 's scene of the Parisian suburban resort known as La Grande .
The atmosphere is transparent and uncommonly vibrant ; the surface seems to flicker or glimmer . ``
, like other excellent critics , was a valued friend of artists , and so he remained all his life even though he gave up criticism after a decade of working on the blanche from 1893 to 1903 .
He accepted a position in a dealer 's gallery , Matisse was among the artists who benefited from his judgement .
A thumbnail by a friend brings to life : `` He did not thrust himself upon you .
First of all , he knew how to listen - which is very rare .
But at the same time he was both transmitter and receiver , so to speak .
He asked questions , and between his questions and the painter 's answers , there was a discovery of the painting itself .
Even more , there was a sort of mimesis between and the artist . ``
A friend to artists in England the war in which had fought was another combatant , the poet and critic Herbert Read .
In 1933 Read published an even-handed book called Now , eclectic in its selection , with discussions of Expressionism , Abstraction and Surrealism .
Read was a progressive without being wholly partisan .
He disobeyed Baudelaire 's instruction to be partial , or obeyed it only in so far as he took a stand against conservative taste .
He did not take sides against Abstraction , even though he was one of the organisers of a Surrealist exhibition in London in 1937 .
This was difficult to understand for impassioned artists who saw Surrealism and Abstraction as for the soul of modern art .
Read 's account of the work of Paul is characteristic .
He judged that it would be difficult to persuade readers of the artistry of 's art , which appeared similar to children 's drawings , so he stressed the work 's imaginative content .
This passage was written , incidentally , at a time when he was not well informed about Klee 's own ideas .
It stands as a sympathetic appraisal by a critic who is largely to his own intuitive sense of quality :
He wants to suggest the exclusive nature of that subliminal world - to dwell there , and to forget the conscious world .
He wants to escape to the world of memory-residues , of disconnected images , for that is the world of fantasy , the world of fairy-tales and myths & hellip ;
( 's art ) denies the reality or sufficiency of normal perception & hellip ;
The eye of the artist is concentrated on his pencil ; the pencil and the line dreams .
A committed critic writes from a social , or political conviction , which interacts with an aesthetic response to a work of art .
This exhibition of `` degenerate art `` in Munich showed Abstract and Constructivist paintings which were stated to express `` total madness `` and the `` height of degeneracy `` .
National or political fervour can alternatively be the motor force of remarkable artistic achievements .
Among some of his frescoes there are some which are imprinted on the memory for ever . ``
This is art , as Lenin wished , for the people .
In the USSR itself , art flourished at first in experiments the 1917 Revolution , but became confined to social utility after 1922 .
Art was subordinated to a social theory , and the result was `` Socialist Realism `` , the realistic portrayal of heroic workers and everyday life in a representational style .
Commentary or criticism of such art within the country necessarily takes the same position .
In modern an attempt has also been made to create a national art , in this instance by partly tradition .
Mao added : `` To study the development of this old culture , to reject its feudal dross and assimilate its democratic essence , is a necessary condition of our new national culture . ``
The critical distinction between feudal dross and democratic essence subsequently difficult to make .
This brief diversion into the cultural and political history of Germany , the USSR and China has been made to emphasise the way that a state may determine artistic production , and thence art criticism .
In other political states during the twentieth century , there has been strong support for the view art should serve a social purpose .
This took such forms as the praise of regionalism in the United States in the 1930s , Marxist criticism in London or New York , or Communist positions taken by Italian critics after the Second World War .
An English critic who attempted the task of keeping a balance between his political convictions and his aesthetic responses was John Berger , who wrote in the 1950s for the New Statesman .
He argued against an excessively formalist type of analysis of art , by pointing out how everyday emotions and ideas also affect the viewer of paintings or .
Many of his readers approved his sensitive and appreciative understanding of paintings , though without sharing his political views .
A fourth type of critic can be called the compiler , whose criticism is implied in choices for collections or exhibitions .
The compiler 's main critical medium is the catalogue , and rather less often articles or a book .
Alfred Barr , the first director of the Museum of Modern Art , New York , is exemplary .
In 1936 , for example , the Museum on two crucially important exhibitions , on and Abstract Art , and Fantastic Art , Dada , Surrealism .
For the latter catalogue Barr chose the Surrealist writer Georges to write a historical essay , but it was Barr 's intelligent advocacy and choice of works that made the such a significant affair .
In place of the aggressive approach of the early years of Surrealism itself , Barr 's commentary is moderated phrases pointing to similarities between Surrealism and works firmly within the tradition of Western art :
On Dada he wrote : `` With robust iconoclastic humor the Dadaists what they considered the sorry shams of European culture .
Barr , in what used to be a general policy for museum curators , was not writing a passionate defence of the his museum .
Rather , `` the Museum does not intend to sponsor a particular aspect of modern art , but rather to make a report to the public by material for study and comparison `` .
Some stress has been thrown thus on modernism and its advocacy , but a traditional critic may write as well or better than a modernist .
Our fifth type must therefore be the traditionalist , for whom it is a pleasure to find the past on in the present .
A traditional critic has the advantage of being able to turn to standards and values from the past .
The highest praise can be given to works which match up and with these .
A traditional critic may be a practising artist ; if so , there is an excellent chance that any technical assessment a piece of criticism will be thorough .
Joshua Reynolds ' comparison of Michelangelo with Raphael can serve us as an example :
Raphael 's materials are generally borrowed , though the noble structure is his own .
Nobody excelled him in that judgement , with which he united his own observations on nature , the energy of Michelangelo , and beauty and simplicity of the antique .
Reynolds was here addressing students at the Royal Academy of Arts in London in 1772 .
It was the fifth of those lectures he gave from 1769 to 1790 , known as his fifteen discourses .
no great vigour of mind or strength of original genius .
He rarely seizes the imagination by exhibiting the higher excellencies , nor does he captivate us by that originality which attends the Painter who thinks for himself .
Reynolds was a notable conversationalist , well able to stand up to his friends , who included Samuel Johnson and Edmund Burke .
It is in this more informal context that his draft for a sixteenth and ironical discourse should be read .
It attacks his constant enemy , the idea of genius :
We know that if you are born with genius , labour is unnecessary ; if you have it not , labour is in vain ; genius is all in all .
Genius , as it disdains all assistance , so it defies all obstacles .
The student here may inform himself whether he has been favoured by heaven with this truly divine gift .
Reynolds ' weighty irony was wielded with more address than arguments put forward by later traditionalists .
But his views were dismaying to one of the readers of his discourses , the poet and artist William Blake .
As to genius , `` Reynolds `` opinion was that Genius may be taught & amp ; all to Inspiration is a Lie & amp ; a Deceit , to say the least of it .
For if it is a Deceit , the whole Bible is Madness .
This Opinion originates with the Greeks ' calling the Muses Daughters of Memory . ``
The last type of critic to be distinguished in the chapter will be the theoretician .
Today , theory is in high fashion at Western universities , and in scope .
Literary theory , drawing other disciplines , including semiotics and linguistics , seeks for structures and meanings in literature .
The medium of an art critic theoretician is the magazine or journal article , not necessarily in a publication specialising in art .
theories are interdisciplinary , and the specific quality of a painting or a sculpture may not be spotlighted by the theoretician , whose writing is likely to be long on interpretation but on description .
A theoretician is well prepared to consider what the most apt questions about works of art may be .
There is , after all , a rich plurality of means and intents in a painting .
Paul Val & eacute ; ry wrote that a painter :
has brought together , and by means of the physical materials of his art a host of desires , intentions , and conditions coming from all regions of his mind and being .
Sometimes he was of his model , sometimes of the mixing of his pigments , his tone , his oils ; sometimes of the flesh itself and sometimes of the canvas .
Even such richness may not be enough for a theoretician .
He described this aesthetic response as the bed-rock of conservative criticism .
For him , critical writing has to take up wider issues than enjoyment of a picture or a sculpture .
Or , the effect of a painting may be compared with those of other means of communication , such as photography , film or television .
there is every reason to welcome such studies , though a reader hoping for judgements about quality may be disappointed by a theoretical writer 's greater stress on interpretation .
Theorists may also be more difficult to follow their arguments because of a current of polemic with which a reader may not be familiar .
For example , the writing of Rosalind Krauss has mainly been published in two journals , the American October and the Macuba , both advancing a special interpretation of twentieth-century art .
Her particular target for attack was the interpretation of abstract art by Clement Greenberg .
Post-modernist interpretations evolved in her articles between 1973 and 1983 , and were published in The Originality of the and Other Modernist Myths in 1987 .
One of the articles is about the abstract artist Sol LeWitt , who was in Krauss 's opinion misinterpreted by three critics as serving `` as triumphant illustration of the powers of human reason .
And , we might ask , what else could Conceptual Art be ? ``
How such as Donald Judd and Robert Smithson , was that they saw `` a false and pious rationality `` as `` the enemy of art `` .
From her knowledge of the artists ' attitudes to their work , she pointed to the part that uncertainties in the process of making their sculpture .
AERIAL VIEW : SURVEYS
`` The White Rabbit had put on his spectacles , but he did not know where to start .
`` Begin at the beginning , `` the King said gravely , `` and go on till you come to the end : then stop . `` ?
Many art books follow this plan , especially those aiming to take a national culture or a whole civilisation .
Art histories often make an attempt to keep to chronology , although the difficulties include the crucial fact that in art there is no clear sequence of events .
Unlike old-fashioned history , art has no decisive battles , no international treaties , and no changes of government .
This is perhaps a more useful analogy than might at first sight appear .
Newer approaches to history can give accounts which do not have landmark events and which tell us about different aspects of the past , such as social conditions .
Deciding where is the beginning can be a trouble for an art historian .
In Europe , classical times are a beginning for historians , but not for archaeologists .
For some art historians , the Renaissance is a new beginning , though medievalists can point out convincingly that no one event divides the Middle Ages from the Renaissance .
In writings about the Renaissance , its beginning may be seen to waver from the thirteenth to the fifteenth century .
One of the major accounts of the Renaissance in Italy was published in 1860 by a Swiss history professor at Basel University .
Jacob Burckhardt sensibly avoids pedantry about a starting date , but stresses the revival of antiquity as a main characteristic of the period .
His book entitled The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy avoids a chronological sequence , since his plan of arrangement was to build up a mosaic of characteristic material .
As he explained : `` My starting point has to be a vision , otherwise I can not do anything .
Vision I call not only optical , but also spiritual realization ; for instance , historical vision from the old sources . ``
A more mundane project for a survey writer is to scan Western art , which has often been attempted in series of books , many of them , as Roger Fry 's comments , by German historians .
A few single volumes have had deserved success .
One of the best was made out of lectures at the du Louvre by the historian , first published in in 1904 ( with 600 illustrations ) .
An American work on the same lines was first published in 1926 by Helen Gardner .
She called it Art Through the Ages .
Neither of these works , nor two more which are to be discussed , have attempted to integrate Eastern with Western art .
The limitations of surveys can be demonstrated by two examples of well-respected books .
A subtle mind and a firm hand were essential ingredients in the success of The Story of Art by E. H. Gombrich , first published in 1950 .
's book is a fine example of a survey , ambitious in scope , in its emphasis on the history of styles , and judicious in appraisals of the work of individual artists .
Both surveys contain art criticism ; Janson uses his advantage of extra space to include more quotations from artists .
For example , this is a passage of interpretive description of a Van Gogh self-portrait : `` & hellip ; his emaciated , luminous head with its burning eyes set off against a whirlpool of darkness .
In other passages , the reader may find more difficulty in following Janson 's judgement .
Here is a passage which shows that a survey can benefit from being used with other books ( even though three of the sculptures mentioned are illustrated by Janson ) .
Antoine , a less self-conscious classicist than Girardon , was another sculptor employed by at Versailles .
In his large stucco relief in the Salon de Guerre , the victorious Louis XIV retains the pose of Bernini 's equestrian statue .
's bust of - again with a certain restraint - the outlines of Bernini 's bust of Louis XIV .
The face , however , shows a realism and subtlety of characterization that are 's own .
He is the first of a long line of distinguished portrait sculptors .
Without comparative material , the reader is in serious difficulty about knowing whether to agree with this discriminative judgement .
His book stresses the history of styles , which he describes in sequence , Baroque for example being followed by , and .
An unwary reader might think that the book is a history of the changes in Western art , whereas it is in fact only a selection of some changes .
The Story of Art and development , sadly at the expense of art which is less varied , of however a quality .
As for a varied painter , only one work is likely to appear a survey .
Excellence is not necessarily a criterion for including a picture or a sculpture in a chronological survey .
The author may choose to use a characteristic work , something typical of its time and .
A work of outstanding quality is a pinnacle ; it is not typical .
There are also technical limitations .
A well-known picture book of Italian art alone contains more than 4 , 000 reproductions , yet histories of art , as we have seen , contain fewer , sometimes much fewer than 1 , 000 plates .
Of the illustrations in any general book relatively few are in colour ; a careful author is bound to consider which works suffer least from being reproduced in black and white .
Again , the need for the deeply interested reader to supplement a survey with other books becomes evident .
The presenter of a television series has some advantage a writer , since filming is more flexible than book production .
A demonstration of the point is to compare Civilisation by Kenneth Clark in its forms as television and book .
The television series is a much richer visual experience , and filming has a completely decisive advantage in being able to explore architecture , inside and out .
Nevertheless , the limitations of writing a script to accompany images on the screen become on the printed page .
The pace of television favours simplifications , generalised statements , witticisms , and short sharp judgements on artists ' performances .
A presenter , after all , knows that a viewer has the visual evidence to check on what is being said .
A single-volume history has recently been courageously and skilfully attempted by Hugh Honour and John Fleming , which inevitably suffers from the problem of compression .
Other civilisations are treated in separate studies .
One parallel to the scope of Janson 's book on Western art , Sherman Lee 's A History of Eastern Art , was first published in 1964 .
This contains sixty plates and 656 black and white plates .
Lee makes firm judgements , as in this comment on a cave painting from the seventh century : `` The most famous figure at Ajanta is in 1 and has been often described as the `` Beautiful `` .
It represents holding a blue lotus , and is located at one side of a cell entrance .
the figure is much destroyed from the waist down ; but the noble torso , and especially the head , express compassion and humility which is the great achievement of Buddhist art . ``
What is true for general histories also applies to surveys of more limited periods .
A typical decision for planning a survey is to take a century , or the reign of some to delimit a period ; this is a device with no relationship to the artistic activity of the time .
In our rapidly vanishing century , decades are also taken periods of time to be commemorated .
In a dispassionate view , a century seems to have several advantages , as being more than a lifespan and being an evident but arbitrary division .
Art is not alone in failing to conform contentedly to such chronological schemes , indeed , some might say that poetry or music are even less amenable .
An to dates is to use a term like Romantic , even if its meaning seems to alter from writer to writer .
Who means today what meant ?
Attempting to capture the spirit of a period is another planning strategy for a survey , though this philosophical notion of a Zeitgeist is notoriously elusive .
It is perhaps more the stuff of epigrams than analysis .
The idea that there is such a thing as the spirit of a time can be awkwardly challenged by asking , `` Whose time ? ``
No prizes can be offered for pointing out that at a given moment there are artists of several generations working and very different ways .
A further , and rather extreme way of dealing with a chronological survey of art is to eliminate the artists .
`` Art history without names `` was a phrase used by Heinrich W & ouml ; lflinn , in his introduction to The Principles of Art History first published in 1915 .
was Burckhardt 's successor as professor at Basel , but his later successful career took him to Berlin , Munich and Z & uuml ; rich , a major art historian whose interests were primarily in the Renaissance and the Baroque .
was naturally not ignorant of artists , but the famous phrase indicated an interest in the sequence of art seen as which develop as if of their own volition .
Such polarities were evidently valuable aids to several generations of W & ouml ; lflinn 's pupils who could benefit from his personal teaching as well as the rather more rigid theory in his books .
such terms to distinguish epochs ; they are only partly useful as interpretation , since W & ouml ; lflinn tended to be more interested in art as an independent phenomenon than as having meaning intended by the artist .
wrote Renaissance and Baroque in 1888 , which in the preface he described as follows :
The subject of this study is the disintegration of the Renaissance .
It is intended to be a contribution to the history of style rather than of individual artists .
My aim was to investigate the symptoms of decay and perhaps to discover in the `` capriciousness and the return to chaos `` a law which would vouchsafe one an insight into the intimate workings of art .
This , I confess , is to me the real aim of art history .
Bernini is evidently attempting to render something quite transcendental and something which had never been attempted by a sculptor that date .
Indeed , it is possible to argue that St Teresa 's mystical ecstasies are themselves something entirely new in the spiritual life of Europe & hellip ;
himself describes the Bernini statues at some length but at no point does he ever mention the subject & hellip ;
was trying to isolate a visual denominator which , he claimed , was common to all works produced at the same time .
These are matters which on philosophy .
A reader today can judge the validity of these claims through the means of photography .
Extensive records enable us to visit what Andr & eacute ; Malraux called a Mus & eacute ; e imaginaire , in which the arts of many cultures and civilisations can be compared .
's books , thousands of picture books since , emphasise details and similarities across boundaries of time and .
Photographs can reduce the scale of a monument or enlarge a detail for scrutiny .
A tourist may ask many questions about an unfamiliar scene .
The answers include history , perhaps technology and sometimes art criticism .
There is no shortage of guide books in the modern world , nor of travel books which regale readers with accounts of what travellers have seen .
This is from one of the letters written by Shelley in Italy , which goes on to describe the painting of St Cecilia by Raphael :
You forget that it is a picture as you look at it & hellip ;
There is a unity and perfection in it of an incommunicable kind .
So vivid a response by a great poet must inspire respect and possibly a curiosity to see if the reader can match the experience .
Guide books customarily take a lesser role , informing the traveller and things to see .
These functions have been well carried out by since the foundation of the firm in the first part of the nineteenth century .
Old copies are now collectors `` items , with their entertaining instructions and .
In 1909 : `` The unattached cyclist on entering Italy with his wheel must deposit 42 fr. 60c. with the authorities , which is returned to him ( though seldom without difficulties ) he quits the country . ``
acquired a reputation for serious standards , and the traveller who missed a double-asterisked attraction had clearly journeyed in vain .
in 1909 , like Reynolds in his fifth discourse , hesitated between two great masters and their works .
`` Whether the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel or the Stanze of Raphael should be regarded as the effort of modern art , has long been the subject of controversy `` ; but they both double asterisks .
A system in guide books is still common practice today .
As art criticism , it has the merit of making a judgement , though description and interpretation may be meagre .
Some rankings have more than the approval of the author of a guide , and are attested by other authorities , local or even national .
In Czechoslovakia works of importance are as national treasures , and while the Japanese have a similar system , they also rank places .
For example , the shrine of Miyajima , a temple approached by water through a famous gateway , three in Japan .
More informal guidance can be found in books with a personal approach , in which the Companion to Rome by Georgina Masson is exemplary ( first published in 1965 ) .
There is adequate historical data about the Sistine Chapel , but there is also a personal response :
More , probably , has been written about this great hall-like chapel than any other building in the world ; but in fact no description , or photograph conveys the impact which it makes .
Georgina Masson 's special gift was her ability to disentangle and evoke in Rome three different cities , of Classical Antiquity , of the Renaissance , and of the Baroque .
Not every city would be suited to this approach , it must be admitted .
In Rome a visitor can stand in front of a Baroque church , but a few minutes later , having walked only a short distance , may have plunged back in time to Antiquity .
This is not true in Philadelphia , where a new city decisively overwhelms the old .
The Liberty and the Court House are attractions which repay attention , but have far less power of historical recall .
Guide books are arranged to suit the convenience of the traveller , for whom routes a city or a site are often suggested .
In an art museum , the works may be described from room to room , whether in a book or on a .
A guide has an edge over the printed page , since the listener is looking at what is being described , and judged .
However , the limitation of the guide is equally evident : only a small number of works can be given such exceptional treatment .
The tourist may find guide books excellent value , but an armchair traveller may be better served in other ways .
Books on any of these topics are likely to have a chronological framework , but the first principle of selection is place .
The art discussed may still be in situ , or at least in the country of its origin ; hence the immense attraction of travel to the sites of great civilisations such as Egypt or Mexico .
Surveys of art on geographical lines are a of policy for publishers .
The art criticism in such books generally has a slant , questioning whether the country or places have had a determining influence on art .
Robert Paine , writing in the Pelican volume on Japan , had an answer :
There can be no doubt that the climate of Japan imposed her artists a different attitude towards art problems .
The city of Kyoto , the imperial capital , lies surrounded by hills and is frequently bathed in mists .
The decorative flatness and the higher colour of Japanese art also follow as products of the same climatic necessity .
Similar passages of critical reflection or speculation can be found in many books .
Does an for watercolour spring from the country 's climate ?
Does the flat landscape of the Netherlands impose a special sort of vision on Dutch artists ?
Some of these struggles have been inspired by base motives - desires to appropriate art to a national or a political cause .
But some such efforts can have sympathy , as in those stirrings of national spirit in central Europe before 1914 , when literature , language and music were fuel for Czech , Polish or Hungarian aspirations .
Consider Czech art , which might be said to have existed only since the beginning of the after the first World War .
The beauty and achievements of Bohemian art can perhaps be called Czech only with an effort , but there is no doubt of the attachment of a people to the heritage that they can rightly claim .
Yet Prague was always an international city , whose culture was dependent on native and external traditions alike .
Let us walk with a visitor through the city , a veteran of the Second World War who values it as one which was almost unscathed from the bombing which devastated so many European cities .
As he has enjoyed his day , he sleeps soundly without a nightmare about what was specifically Czechoslovak in the sights .
The truth is nationality in art has limited importance .
At no time will this be more true than in the 1990s , when the art critic confronts an increasingly international community of art .
Of course , surveys will continue to be written about American painting or German art , British sculpture or Australian print-making ; this fact of publication does not mean that these activities have an inner coherence .
Any reader is entitled to ask what purpose such national anthologies serve ; their best justification is making art more accessible , enabling those artists to find and hold on to audiences for their work .
The reader can beware of an element of self-interest in such anthologies , whether in the form of books or exhibitions .
For one thing , a government agency may have commercial or political aims in surveys or anthologies .
An international cultural agreement is made in with a trading agreement ; , it is hoped , will follow the art exhibition .
Not a new situation , for there are ample historical parallels .
Surveys of technique often include more rewarding art criticism than either chronologically or geographically based books .
The writer is able to measure artists not only against each but also against standards of technical achievement .
Here is a passage from a classic on and , about D & uuml ; rer :
By the very energy its realisation , his accomplishment is all the more intense in its expression .
The author is the scholar Arthur .
His working life was spent in the British Museum , whose print collection was his special care .
He first published a short history at the beginning of the century , but the passage quoted comes from the enlarged edition of 1923 .
In discussing , he treated him the most versatile artist of a , whose other members were Marcantonio Raimondi and Lucas van Leyden .
Another book about the age of , but on a different topic , is The Limewood Sculptors of Renaissance Germany , by Michael Baxandall , published in 1980 .
The author started his career in the Victoria and Albert Museum , where there is an important group of this sculpture ; his book had a double origin in a museum exhibition and a series of lectures .
Divisions in the book are unusually clear , separate chapters being given to topics such as function , the market , or the historical and political background of the subject .
He makes a particular point of technique .
In the chapter on technique the author describes the process of carving a figure from a wood with particular properties .
Limewood is contrasted with oak , and the chapter finishes :
The properties of the material limewood a special medium .
A final chapter is to four case studies : Michael of , Tilmann of Wurzburg , Veit of Nuremberg , and Hans of .
These short studies are in part historical , but partly art criticism ; the study of is particularly relevant , as it comments both on an encounter with a sculpture and the problems of about it .
There is no one way of looking at a sculpture by and similarly there is no one angle or distance from which we see it anything like , but there is something like a normal sequence of approach .
This begins with the figure impinging powerfully from a distance , in this case as one walks into St Martin 's at , more powerfully than other things in the field of view .
What carries most here is , of course , the gilt motif of the folds offered by the Virgin 's mantle & hellip ; to stretch a phrase , a Leinberger sculpture is a permanent possibility of cumulative sensation .
In comparison , `` One 's relation to Riemenschneider 's Altar of the Holy Blood is a little : one waits and the shift of light will change its mood and . ``
This extended critical evaluation is a rarity in a survey , but very welcome in the way it spells out a connoisseur 's response in formal terms to a work of art .
It has the added value of being firmly rooted in a thorough understanding of technique .
Surveys of painting , it has to be admitted , are more fallible in this respect , partly because of the simplicity of the means .
Differences exist between the media of tempera and oil , or oil and , but they do not have the importance of contrasts in other material processes .
Nevertheless , there is one group of surveys of painting which have a special interest : those which form part of handbooks or , more grandly , treatises on how to paint .
A practitioner 's assessment of other artists ' work , often in the light of making similar attempts , can make intriguing reading .
Drawings are quite often survey treatment .
The field of old master drawings has received extremely detailed study ; the drawings are interesting both in their own right and as a means of knowing more about artists ' practices .
The connoisseur also hopes to have in a drawing an authentic work by an artist 's own hand , which in the case of an oil painting may not be so .
European studio practice from the Renaissance to the nineteenth century included the master 's employment of assistants , and the use of specialists for parts of pictures , such as drapery or landscape .
Watercolours are also treated in surveys .
Here the writer is likely to be a practitioner , and the approach may defer to the popularity of the medium as a pastime for amateurs .
Print-making has had the advantage of some careful scholars , but an excellent book is by a practitioner , Stanley Hayter .
It is modestly titled About Prints .
In it this master printmaker wrote lucidly and well about the range of possibilities in his profession .
His memories of his Paris studio add spice to his account , for the facilities there were used not only by his students but in addition by such major artists as Mir & oacute ; and Picasso .
The technical survey is above all a category of book in which the writer will have closely observed the material .
This observation has direct bearing questions of authenticity , since a detail may be the way that the true can be separated from the false .
William J. Ivins was curator of prints at the Metropolitan Museum from 1916 to 1946 .
This is an enlargement from an original fifteenth-century woodcut .
On the opposite page is 's copy . ``
`` Pilinski had to redraw his copy of the old and valuable because he could not paste the original on his block and through it .
Every line is different - every line is stupid - and the whole character has changed .
In a number of places completely misunderstood the `` indications `` of the original . ``
THE SURVEY WITH A THEME
Themes in art have a fascination , since they add a subject interest to a viewer 's enjoyment of artistic qualities .
The portrait is an endlessly interesting example , a theme redolent with social connotations and artistic references .
In Dostoevsky 's opinion , `` The portrait painter seeks the moment when the model looks most like himself ; in the capacity to find and hold this moment lies also the talent of the portraitist . ``
The novelist in search of character thus finds a in the painter .
This hope for a natural quality in portraits , however , is frequently disappointed , since many sitters are eager to be flattered .
The artist 's self-portrait is a special case in portraiture and deservedly part of the collecting policy of art museums including the Uffizi , Florence .
A successful description of a self-portrait may not be difficult , but an illuminating interpretation may call many references , especially other artists ' pictures of themselves .
What can be deduced from a self-portrait is often controversial ; a critic is especially likely to read into a self-portrait some opinion about the artist .
, as in the cases of Rembrandt and Van Gogh , there is a whole series of pictures to choose from , books can be written on the self-images of one artist .
This theme is a useful one for assessing the quality of a critic 's writing , since it tempts the rash into speculation , while an impoverished eye will miss relevant and useful comparisons .
A theme personal psychology is necessarily absent is the Christian subject of the Madonna and Child .
Again , much interest attaches to interpretation , an impassive hierarchical image of the Madonna is softened through the centuries into a more human and tender figure .
The multitude of Madonnas for Italian worship in the Renaissance made this a fruitful theme for connoisseurship which has taken on the task of authentic works from those by followers or copyists .
An art critic may have difficulty in deciding how far the picture needs to be considered as devotional imagery , and how far discussion can be limited to artistic merits .
An extremist view expressed by a twentieth-century artist is what Matisse had to say his responses to murals by Giotto .
The title will only serve to confirm my impression . ``
In a different context , but also on the issue of religion , an American book on the Aztecs by the archaeologist commented tartly :
The Aztecs did not have a term for `` fine arts `` , nor did they speculate about aesthetics , nor make objects to be contemplated for their beauty .
They had none of the socially sterile attitude towards art which we adopt our own culture .
Instead , they recognised the value of superior workmanship and used its products to honour the gods who were intermediaries between man and the infinite power of the universe .
The list of themes and their varied fortunes is a long one .
For example , painting had only a gradual success as a theme in European painting .
Kenneth Clark demonstrated this development of an evolving sensibility to nature in his lectures , into , published in 1949 .
His introduction , incidentally , :
anyone who expects this book to be a treatise on the history of landscape painting will be disappointed & hellip ; in spite of copious rewriting , these pages remain .
One may remove the words `` next please `` from the text , but not from the sequences of thought .
The publication of lectures is a well-known form of literary suicide .
I indulge in it now because the audiences who heard them endured , with much patience , extremes of heat and .
I am grateful , and can only show my gratitude by giving them the text to criticise under more agreeable conditions .
A two pages of the text are given to Corot 's landscapes , five pictures being cited , though the reader is less fortunate than the lecture audience , as only two are illustrated .
Here is Clark 's description of 's late style :
From all his great range of delicate visual experiences came to be satisfied with - shimmery light from water , and through the delicate leaves of birches and willows .
He concentrated on it because he loved it , and he thereby proved once more his extreme simplicity of character .
For he had revealed one of the eternally popular effects of nature , one which is still quoted by simple people as a standard of visual beauty .
Animals make up a category of painting with an uneven reputation , though the theme is one of obvious importance and interest in sculpture .
Such a frank exclusion from the domain of art is not a solitary instance .
Exclusion , though , is rather less general a problem than a low status for some categories of painting .
Academies of art , whether in the West or in the Orient , have had lists of priorities in themes of art , in which there are many similarities .
This sort of listing is worth knowing by a reader , who may occasionally notice that it underlies the degree of attention being paid to a theme by a critic .
THE SURVEY WITH A THEORY
The last type of survey to be considered has a basis in theory .
If a critic has a very political or religious point of view , this can override other considerations in judgements about art ; the viewpoint may also give a bias to the description or interpretation .
A remarkable Marxist interpretation , for example , was made of painting from Giotto 's time to the fifteenth century , by Frederick Antal in the 1940s .
Of course , a theorist may damage an argument through bias , perhaps excluding relevant evidence inconvenient to the case being made ; but this is not a danger exclusive to theorists .
Omissions are most patent perhaps in surveys made with a political bias .
A recent survey with a viewpoint is by the American art historian , Whitney Chadwick .
Women , and Society is a synthesis of that has been progressing for twenty years about women and the visual arts .
But Chadwick makes some sensible points about the questions raised by her account which challenge common assumptions about art and society .
Some are connected with writings about literature , philosophy and politics which are called post-modern or post-structural .
Post-structuralist texts expose the role of language in deferring meaning and in constructing a subjectivity which is not but is constantly negotiated through a whole range of forces - economic , social and political .
The most difficult theoretical surveys are those which seem to promise to answer difficult questions about art in general , perhaps especially in the modern world .
As in books on the philosophy of art , or aesthetics , many do not in fact contain any art criticism , in the sense of description , interpretation and judgement of works .
Their strengths are rather in clearing the ground of preconceived ideas about the arts , and putting new points of view .
When works of art are described only those aspects of an image important to the argument are included .
It is in this arena that some of the fiercest about art is taking place , though the contests range wider than the visual arts to politics and economics .
In short , from some books the reader may gain moral or political enlightenment , but will be disappointed of developing a personal taste .
David Talbot describes such development of taste as follows :
If our admiration be true , genuine , and progressive we will in the end come to admire the good and cease to admire the bad .
We will learn by our own experience what is best , and not by following the dogmatism of another .
ZOOMING : THE MONOGRAPHS
Dictionaries describe a monograph as an account of a single subject ; by this definition monographs make up one of the most common categories of art publishing .
A book on a single painter , for example , is a monograph .
There is some in a grey area of differences between monographs on the one hand , and catalogues or biographies on the other .
For convenience , biographies will be included in the chapter , while catalogues will be treated in the next .
There is a boom in books about individual artists , especially those who are already well known .
The reader of a monograph on a minor artist may not find a book easily , but there are plenty of publications on Leonardo , Rembrandt or Picasso .
It might be thought that this was a natural consequence of the popularity of great artists , but in fact the economics of in some bizarre decisions about art books .
The reader with a love of art is not always at the front of a publisher 's attention .
Art books are expensive to produce , especially if they contain colour illustrations .
One way for a publisher to finance the publication of an art book is to act with other publishers who will share costs ; an alternative is to find a subsidy .
Both these strategies choices of subjects for art books .
Other publishing houses in other countries will naturally prefer artists who are already internationally well known .
This aside , the reader has found a monograph , what will it contain ?
An older book , that is one published before around 1900 , will only have black and white plates , which are unlikely to be photographs .
This applies , for example , to the book on published in 1885 , selected by A. and with an essay by Ernest .
By the 1920s a characteristic book , as for example C & eacute ; zanne : a study of his development by Roger Fry , published in 1927 , had black and white photographic illustrations only .
In either case , the absence of colour gave an incentive to the authors to provide evocative descriptions .
These descriptions were vital to about these two artists in whose work colour plays so important a part .
At the end of the twentieth century , at least some colour illustrations are likely to find places in a monograph .
The reader can thus be aware that a writer may have written what happens to have been offered .
This may be important in assessing how well a writer illustrates an argument .
The standards which can be obtained in colour reproductions today are , but not always attained .
Comparison of illustrations of the same picture in several publications will demonstrate this truism , while the best test of looking at a reproduction in front of the picture itself can be a disheartening experience .
A lecture audience looking at a slide projection , incidentally , may also suffer from seeing distorted colours , though art museums take some to sell transparencies of a satisfactory quality .
Considerations of illustrations aside , the reader will be hoping for enlightenment from the text .
It is probable that this will have much to offer .
Monographs are a main source of considered art critical writing .
The author has had time to consider and reflect , so that descriptions , interpretations and evaluations will have been carefully formulated .
There are many choices of arrangement and treatment available to a monographer .
Roger Fry , in about C & eacute ; zanne , took a different route .
A painter himself , he was attracted to the problems he believed that C & eacute ; zanne had faced and solved in composition and technique .
Fry 's words are : `` Those artists among us whose formation took place the war as their tribal deity , and their totem . ``
Fry thought that in C & eacute ; zanne 's mature work :
For him the synthesis was asymptote towards which he was for ever approaching without ever quite reaching it ; it was a reality , incapable of complete realization .
An example of Fry 's description of C & eacute ; zanne 's development with colour :
When C & eacute ; zanne we note at each nodal point of the interplay of planes , C & eacute ; zanne marks this sequence by a series of small washes of various colours , modulating generally from to greenish , or bluish .
His aim in this was as far as possible to translate changes of tones into changes of colour , feeling that only by this method could the full saturation and pressure of colour be realized .
In proportion , then , as we advance the chronological sequence of his works , we find his material become less and less , his touches more and more and transparent , more like watercolour .
The change is gradual .
Nor is it so regular that we can trust to it altogether to fix the exact date of any given work .
There are returns to the impasto , but thin painting certainly predominates towards the end of the century .
From description to formal interpretation , we can cite part of an analysis of a portrait , Monsieur Geoffroy :
Its success must be partly due to the extraordinary number of sittings to which his admiring and clear-sighted sitter .
The construction here is more erudite than in the Madame C & eacute ; zanne .
It is less removed from the ordinary conception of a portrait arrangement .
The movements here are more complex , there is a less complete frontality of presentment and symmetry of design .
The equilibrium so consummately achieved results from the counterpoise of a great number of directions .
He it was who first , among moderns at all events , conceived this method of organizing the infinite complexity of appearance by referring it to a geometrical scaffolding .
Though it must be remembered that this is no a priori scheme upon the appearances , but rather an interpretation gradually distilled from them by prolonged contemplation .
Whether Fry was justified in his interpretations of is not our question .
What is valuable is to see here is a critic at the top of his bent .
And Fry was straightforward about his own perceptions .
`` The critic , I hold , should be loyal enough to his own impressions to confess to what is probably due to his own defects .
I must admit therefore that there is one passage in this otherwise consummate design ( A Fruit ) of which the meaning escapes me .
Another point is also made explicitly. : his difficulty is assessing C & eacute ; zanne 's work at the end of the century .
Fry 's book contains rather little biographical information , the focus being firmly on C & eacute ; zanne 's work .
There is almost nothing about the artist 's contemporaries .
This not an invariable pattern for monographs , but readers can usually expect that the central figure of a book will receive prominence at the expense of any other artists .
If comparisons are included they may be with an artist whose work is considered by the author to be inferior to the subject of the monograph .
Biographical information is another issue .
A biography is not a monograph , and , indeed , there are biographies of painters which do little justice to art .
In such books the artists `` incidental activities receive undue emphasis .
Some see the conflict as having been crystallised by Proust , who wrote an attack on the critic Sainte-Beuve in 1908 ( though it was not published until 1954 ) .
, as one of the most widely-read critics of the late nineteenth century , had perfected a conversational essay in which personal anecdotes , quotation , literary judgements and reflections were .
Proust took the view that writers should be judged by their works , rather than be interpreted through biography .
Ironists reflect with pleasure that nevertheless one of the great literary biographies of the century has subsequently been written about Proust .
How valuable biographical information is to literary or art criticism is a question that will never receive a decisive answer ; but a commonplace observation can be made , that circumstances alter cases .
Some artists separate their art from their lives , some are articulate about their aims , others are gruffly evasive .
was not forthcoming in his letters or his conversation .
His dealer Vollard wrote a book of reminiscences about the painter , including a famous passage about his portrait .
`` After a hundred and fifteen sittings , C & eacute ; zanne abandoned my portrait to return to Aix .
`` The front of the shirt is not bad `` - such were his last words on . ``
The personal characters of artists can not be infallibly deduced from their work .
The authors are Rudolph and Margot Wittkower , and their theme is that while some artists succeed financial and social circumstances without strain , other artists tend to Saturnine temperaments .
`` Saturn is the planet of melancholics , and Renaissance philosophers discovered that the emancipated artists of their time should have the characteristics of the temperament ; they were contemplative , meditating , , solitary , creative . ``
Comparable ideas about artists can be discovered in other cultures , but also very different views .
Even in Europe , Saturn is not the only planet under whose influence it is possible to be born .
`` is the patron of cheerful , lively men of action .
According to ancient tradition , craftsmen , among others , are born under his sign . ``
Beyond which , a disbeliever astrology can find quite other ways of artists .
A final caution about using monographs about painters is that they can seldom be read .
Historical background is only compressed in a monograph ; biographical material may be more extensive in other sources ; the painter 's contemporaries will not receive much attention , and may be slighted .
Even illustrations may not be adequate , details of pictures often being poorly represented , leaving an artist 's techniques , materials and to be discovered from more studies .
The biographer may come up against problems of concealment , both records and works having been destroyed .
is often from an artist 's oeuvre , while student or juvenilia may be saved only by chance or possibly by a devoted family .
considered lives of artists up a basic category of art criticism , buttressing his opinion with accounts of writings by and others .
This will result in the book evading the task of art criticism altogether , though the critical views of the artist may be recorded .
A deferential biographer is especially likely to take this line .
An exception may be illustrated by a passage from a classic biography , that of John by Charles Leslie .
Leslie was himself a painter , and thus in his own right on his friend 's art , as here on a painting of Hampstead Heath :
The sky is of the of an English summer day , with large , but not threatening , clouds of a silvery whiteness .
The distance is of a deep , and the near trees and grass of the freshest ; for could never consent to parch up the verdure of nature to obtain warmth .
These tints are balanced by a very little warm colour on a road and gravel pit in the foreground , a single house in the distance , and the scarlet jacket of a labourer .
Such a passage is exceptional in Leslie 's book , which , in the Victorian manner , was a memoir with extensive quotations from Constable 's letters .
's own personality and opinions are thus the main gain of a reader from Leslie 's book .
To borrow a phrase from a biography of Van Gogh , the writer had had the advantage of having the artist as a coauthor .
This phrase comes from Carl Nordenfalk 's book , The Life and Work of Van Gogh , first published in 1943 ( in in 1953 ) .
starts his preface as follows .
Van Gogh 's life has so often been made the subject of literary treatment that the art historian is strongly inclined to leave the biographical matter severely alone and concentrate exclusively on the artistic aspect .
But he is soon forced to the conclusion that in this case it is impossible to keep the aesthetic side entirely apart from the biographical .
The reason is that with Van Gogh art and life are not merely conditioned by each other to a greater degree than with any other artist , but actually merge with each other .
In a sense , Van Gogh 's life is itself an artistic creation .
Van Gogh as the subject for a biographer is thus a test case .
's book includes the scrupulous examination of visual evidence always welcome and often found in by a museum curator .
Here he describes the impact of Impressionism on Van Gogh 's work in the spring of 1887 :
He had resolutely abandoned his old palette and the method of mixing complementary colours to dirty intermediate tones of grey .
Interpretation of the artist 's work , however , depends on the artist 's own account , since Nordenfalk had `` the deliberate intention of presenting Van Gogh the writer and thinker `` .
ARTISTS `` OWN WRITING
Van Gogh is famous not only for his art , but for his writing .
He did not write an autobiography , but his letters have been a source of fascination to a wide audience , especially artists .
Luckily , he had a correspondent in his brother Theo in whom he could confide and with whom he could explore ideas about art ; the letters are thus an invaluable source of interpretation .
Private letters are like a conversation overheard , often more revealing than an autobiography , or than a diary which may have been written with more than half an intention of allowing it to be published .
What private letters from an artist can do best is to elucidate what was uppermost in an artist 's mind at the time , often artistic aims which would be difficult to discover otherwise .
Besides which , there are some artists whom it is a pleasure to know even a little better from their letters .
I 'm sick of Portraits and wish very much to take my and walk off to some sweet village , I can paint landskips and enjoy the fag-end of life in quietness and .
But these fine ladies and their tea-drinkings , husband-huntings , etc. , etc. , etc. , will job me out of the last ten years , and I fear getting husbands too .
Artists on their travels sometimes write letters which are good value , whether in praise or censure of what they see .
Lawrence , for example , was in Parma in 1820 , in ecstasy over the work of Correggio :
Four times I went long visits to the St Jerome , his finest work .
Diaries are perhaps more often a vehicle for complaints .
Here is an American artist about his dismay at the work he saw at Paris in 1831 :
Although I had been informed that the present artists were in merit , I did not expect to find them , with little exception , so totally devoid of it .
I was in the beginning with their subjects .
Thomas Cole was not a diarist on the scale or with the range of one of the painters , surely even by him , Eug & egrave ; ne .
's journal is articulate , concerned with other arts as well as painting , besides containing much on contemporary life .
A passage of analogies in painting and poetry comes from September 1847 .
`` I see painters prose writers and poets .
In another passage in 1853 , this time about The Bathers , a painting by , he invokes the aesthetic standards of music .
He did not like 's subject .
`` The commonness and the uselessness of the thought are abominable ; and if only his idea , common and useless as it is , were clear & hellip ;
Oh , Rossini !
Oh , Mozart !
Oh , in all the arts , who draw from things only such elements of them as are to be shown to the mind !
What would you say before these pictures ! ``
Artists ' writing on art can naturally be more practical or technical , even in defining their own aims .
Books about sculpture have problems all of their own .
The first and most obvious difficulty is that a three-dimensional object can not fit satisfactorily on to a flat page .
Different views of a sculpture can be presented , but you can not move a sculpture except with a film camera .
There is also the problem of settings .
Some sculptures are designed for their sites , and the relationship between site and sculpture is difficult to capture a book .
parks are an enjoyable innovation of the late twentieth century , or perhaps it would be better to say a welcome adaptation of an existing practice .
In the seventeenth century Louis XIV had a sculpture park at Versailles , but it surrounded his palace , and was more formally designed by Le N & ocirc ; tre , who needed sculptures for the focal points of his avenues .
Twentieth-century sculpture parks are less rigidly planned , and to accommodate sculpture by artists in many different styles .
The site can be adapted to suit the sculpture , which has a dominant role , unlike sculpture destined for the decoration of palatial gardens .
Commemorative figures in city squares , portrait , tomb or cemetery furniture have also been traditionally restricted by the terms of commissions .
on Auguste Rodin can make the point .
According to George Heard Hamilton , Rodin became `` a figure of international significance , the most admired , prolific , and influential sculptor since Bernini `` .
With the rise of modernism , Rodin 's reputation fell ; with the decline of modernism , Rodin 's fame is again .
Rodin was a skilful salesman of his work , making careful use of photography in establishing and maintaining his good name .
1900 , he insisted that no photography of his work was allowed without his permission .
There was a healthy demand for prints and postcards , which added to his income from the arrangements he had with photographers and agencies .
As Albert Elsen has noted :
We know with major sculptures such as The Burghers of Calais and the , Rodin did not claim that they were equally successful from all points of view .
He believed that these monuments compositionally from five or six angles .
Given Rodin 's collaboration with his photographers , these old photographs go in answering the question from which of view and from what distances they should be seen .
What was true of Rodin 's sculpture is also worth consideration by any reader of a sculptural monograph .
Another aspect of the matter is the question of scale .
Reproduced to a uniform size on the printed page , sculptures which are monumental in size can not be distinguished from those which are mere studies or maquettes .
There is the possibility of misinterpretation by the reader .
Some compensation may exist sketches and preliminary drawings , where they exist , and which are easier to study a page .
These may take either the form of related drawings , or in Rodin 's case , a free style of which demonstrates his power of vivid creative improvisation with the figure .
A further issue is how well sculptures are suited to their sites .
Sculptural monographs often contain little information on this topic , and photographs of sculptures in situ are .
Further , public response to works in prominent positions is rarely commented on .
Yet for a work in a square this is an interesting aspect of art criticism .
Perhaps in the last decade of this century something of a change in attitude to sculpture is becoming evident .
The spaces in a city are more , and their is more a matter of public concern .
Sculptures in cities are a part of cultural history , and can be the symbols by which the cities are known or remembered .
Rome is distinguished by the statue on the Capitoline Hill of Marcus Aurelius ; New York , even the United States , is symbolised by the Statue of Liberty ; Copenhagen is remembered for its mermaid .
Also , the history of sculpture includes some account of the abortive plans for sculpture , just the history of architecture is incomplete a history of ideas without a knowledge of rejected proposals .
Even though the same might be argued for painting , the technical obstacles to be overcome for painting are very much less than for sculpture .
Again , this is where sculpture is closely aligned to social and political history .
An art monograph need not be about a person , but can be about an individual work or a scheme such as a mural decoration .
A recent monograph of Jacob Epstein 's memorial sculpture to the naturalist W. H. Hudson at Hyde Park Corner may be used as an example .
Terry Friedman 's book contains fourteen chapters , which chart the development of the work and its reception - a stormy one .
The monograph is accompanied by a facsimile of a sketchbook for the memorial , and documented by letters and printed sources , including articles in the press .
Comparisons of the sculpture with other contemporary works are included , and a summary conclusion implies the eventual security of the controversial sculpture in its Hyde Park home .
The Hudson memorial is not widely known , but the scope of this monograph is exemplary .
for art historians , incomplete schemes or dismembered works such as altarpieces have the attraction of needing detective ; but a critic takes an interest in a reconstruction only if it throws new light on art .
The main strength of this sort of monograph is its potential for detailed interpretation .
A monograph on an artist who practises several fields can be unusually interesting , since the writer 's is to write with equal competence on different topics .
Occasionally the challenge is too daunting , and teams of writers combine forces rather than one author attempting to rival the knowledge and skills of a Leonardo .
More frequently work different media is split up into studies , so that although there are general studies of 's work , there are also specialist monographs on his prints , and on his sculpture and ceramics .
The versatile artist raises the question of relationship between the arts , and how far they can be considered to have the same or similar aims .
In the nineteenth century it was Richard Wagner whose extraordinary ambition it was to make a complete artistic environment , in which the arts would blend .
Historians can point to the philosophical views which underlay this ambition , and artists and sculptors were in various ways affected by the demonstration of its realisation in the theatre built for the composer at .
The collaboration of artists with the stage was also brought to a high point by Serge Diaghilev , in his commissions to artists for the Russian Ballet .
This connection between painting and the theatre was important to earlier European art in religious as well as secular performances .
Critics no less than artists have wide interests in the arts , and may introduce comparisons in their interpretations .
In the nineteenth century to say that a picture was poetic was a common term of praise .
According to this formalist approach art aspires to the condition of music , a phrase employed by , but deriving from classical Greece .
Clearly artists working several media have a wide range of references .
The art critic is thus bound to consider with care what standards of comparison should be used .
In the late twentieth century artists working in performance difficulties for the critic , though some observers find it refreshing rather than troublesome to consider beyond the easel picture and the individual sculpture .
In sum , then , the monograph is a major site for art critical writing , and , moreover , the place where the most extended criticism is likely to appear .
The reader may be disappointed by the standard of what is written , but unlike other sites of criticism , this can not be attributed to the form of publication , only to the limitations of the author .
In a monograph , the author has the best chance of a free hand .
PANNING ANGLES : THE CATALOGUES
The second half of the nineteenth century saw new standards achieved in art historical scholarship , both through the careful study of documents and by close scrutiny of works of art .
The results of these studies were published extensively in catalogues of private and public collections , and in what in are termed catalogues raisonn & eacute ; s , that is to say complete lists of artists ' works .
Such catalogues were important to scholarship and also to the art market .
If a scholar authenticated a work as by a major artist , then its price was certain to be higher .
A hero of this period was Giovanni , a remarkable connoisseur who started essays on pictures in public collections in 1874 .
His decisive opinions about the correct attributions of authorship in pictures were founded on a personal method , partly inspired by his medical training .
He paid close attention to characteristics in a painting so apparently insignificant the shape of a nostril or the lobe of an ear , arguing that such details were too unimportant for a follower to copy exactly .
Typically , Morelli participated one of the Swiss glacial expeditions organised by Louis Agassiz .
later became the foremost zoological teacher in the United States , basing his teaching practice on the observation of nature .
discouraged the use of books , except for research .
One story about his teaching is that a new student would be told to observe a fish in a tank .
After some time the student would return to report .
`` Look again , `` he would be told .
After a week , Agassiz 's object lesson in respect for nature had made its impact .
Morelli 's insistence on observation was a comparable approach to .
Morelli 's method was extended by other scholars , and to systematic examination of documents .
One of 's youthful students was Bernard Berenson , whom described in 1890 `` an extraordinarily scholarly young man who had already advanced far in the study of art `` .
The young was a polymath , whose brilliant career at Harvard led his friends to pay for him to visit Europe to continue his studies .
It was in Berlin that he first read Morelli 's work .
had found his vocation : `` to be sure that every Lotto is a Lotto , every a , every a `` .
His book on Lorenzo Lotto , published in 1895 , was subtitled `` An Essay in Constructive Art Criticism `` .
's decisions on attributions are listed in a reference catalogue , The Paintings of the Renaissance .
The Morellian method had opponents , among them some of the scholars of whom made fun by his articles .
His judgements were impressive nevertheless , so that some critics were reduced to agreeing with his conclusions while denying the validity of his system .
Before his day , and after it , there were scholars who relied more on intuition .
Max Friedlander , an outstanding scholar of Northern European art , took the view that accepting a work into an artist 's oeuvre was like recognising a friend , not a matter of measurement or detailed scrutiny .
The reader is thus relying on Friedlander 's eye .
A difference between and is that the former explains his method , while the latter does not .
More than a hundred years have passed Morelli started ; in that time many problems of authorship have been solved , while about others tacit agreement has been reached .
The results of this process can be read in detail in catalogues raisonn & eacute ; s , which often give a blow-by-blow account of the arguments of scholars over the years .
Here is a summary account of 's painting by , the self-portrait in the Louvre .
It comes from a book on by Hans Tietze ( the references are left out ) .
On the engraving of the picture made by Gisbert van Geen in 1588 , for which supplied the ornamental framework and which reproduced his biography , is described as being seventy years old .
According to this the picture must have been painted about 1588 , with which the style and the age of the sitter agree .
The catalogue raisonn & eacute ; continues to be a key document for authentication of an artist 's work .
As the decades have gone , scholarly work has piled up , so that this category of book has taken a larger , longer and much more expensive form than before .
Today catalogues raisonn & eacute ; s are often divided into two ; one volume is for an introduction and plates , while the has the detailed catalogue .
authorship are fiercely fought , and in the nature of things , frequently impossible to resolve with finality .
Problems of authenticity are not so great or modern art as for other periods , even if a gifted forger like the painter de can fool some of the people for some of the time .
Catalogues raisonn & eacute ; s of modern artists do not depend on scholarly guesswork at attributions , and thus lack the laconic critical judgements reached by connoisseurs .
In compensation , pictures or sculptures may be accompanied by comments from the artists .
Additionally , the cataloguer will be sure to make comparisons , which will be useful to the reader , for the format is one of the few in which a generous number of illustrations can be included .
Any compiler of a catalogue raisonn & eacute ; will have seen and compared all the works , or will scruple to state if some work has proved inaccessible .
At this level of personal and intimate there is little competition from other observers ; only a handful of people in the world will ever see all the works in a catalogue raisonn & eacute ; .
Exhibitions are major arenas for spectators of art , as well as for artists ' struggles to achieve reputations and recognition .
This section will consider not what the critics write reviews of exhibitions , but the criticism which is contained within the exhibition catalogues ; not the commentary from the box , but the programme of events .
A first broad division between types of exhibitions needs to be made .
There are shows which could be grouped under the heading of historical exhibitions ; there are exhibitions and group exhibitions of works by artists ; and there are exhibitions in dealers ' galleries , notably .
The catalogues which accompany these events have rather different characters , for although there are entries for the exhibited works in each sort of catalogue , and usually an introduction , historical catalogues often have additional essays .
Catalogues of major shows have also become bigger and more expensive in recent years , usually through the help of national , industrial or commercial sponsorship .
Such catalogues include accounts of relevant historical research , and may cause new original historical to be done .
Individual works may be studied more carefully for a catalogue entry than ever before .
In several ways , then , a catalogue may be in advance of any other publications .
The corollary is that some catalogue information has only a limited life , since it may in its turn be overtaken by new research .
In the introduction or other essays there may be some writing which will not date , such as art criticism which documents the personal experience of the writer .
Take , for example , this record of a personal response to Picasso 's The Man with a Sheep by the critic Tim Hilton in the catalogue for `` Picasso 's Picassos , in 1981 :
The Man with a Sheep is said to be humanitarian ; that is far from 's experience in front of it , and the assertion is not much supported by the iconographical evidence .
Is this a king who is the shepherd of his people ?
Or a priest of some unknown religion who strides towards us , implacably set some atavistic rite ?
In the drawings the lamb appears to have bound feet , and the purport of the piece is surely more to do with sacrifice than deliverance .
Some art criticism in a catalogue may be included so as to document the history of taste .
For example , in `` The Shock of Recognition `` John Constable 's love for the work of van Ruisdael is highlit .
Another entry , for The Ancient Oak by Jan van Goyen ( painted in 1642 ) seeks to explain a later attitude to a seventeenth-century :
The , weathered oak is the main motif , a theme as much and loved by the Romantic poets and painters as the old willow tree .
The execution , however , and this is typical of the 17th century Dutch masters , is more minute ; and the composition , completely determined by a diagonal , is stricter than that of the painters .
According to 18th century principles the painting is `` sublime `` in the roughness and irregularity of the tree , as well as `` beautiful `` in the smoothness of the water .
An instructive and recent example of a historical exhibition is `` Making Their `` , in the United States during 1989 .
The subtitle of the show was `` Women artists move into the , 1970 - 1985 `` .
The catalogue is 300 pages long with eight essays , as well as artists ' biographies .
Such a catalogue inevitably tends to describe and characterise artists rather than evaluate them , while interpretation is likely to be left to quotations from the artists .
Here is a passage about a picture by Judy Rifka : `` In , a dancer , seen from above , is set off against an exuberant field of abstract color patches and architecturally evocative lines and circles .
Segments of the athletic composition forward into the viewer 's space because Rifka has affixed additional forms onto the surface plane . ``
Elsewhere , Thomas McEvilley writes : `` One day in 1970 fifty thousand women fifth Avenue in New York .
It is said to have been the biggest women 's gathering suffrage days , a little more than half a century before & hellip ;
On the central issue raised by the subtitle of the show , art or out of the mainstream , some statistical study was made of the representation of women artists and the milestones in their careers .
The catalogue as a whole is thus a document in the history of taste , a historical account , and at the same time contains some art criticism , not always explicit in evaluating the works shown .
exhibitions tend to have rather perfunctory introductions and entries ; the same is often true of exhibitions arranged by groups of artists , though they may have statements of aim or even an artists ' manifesto .
Generally , art criticism connected with mixed and group exhibitions is commentary from outside , so that we shall return to them , with only this brief here , in the next chapter .
We can consider exhibitions instead , either public or commercial galleries .
Major art museums may devote considerable resources to an individual artist 's exhibition , on the same scale as a historical show .
But one feature of a catalogue of an exhibition for a living artist which is different is the likely inclusion of reminiscences from colleagues and members of the artist 's family , who may make comments .
A dealer will have chosen his critic with special care for an introduction , an ideal candidate often being a sympathetic friend , perhaps a curator .
In 1904 Sidney Colvin was Keeper of Prints and Drawings at the British Museum .
Colvin had known Burne-Jones , and was persuaded to write a preface for a London gallery .
His text preserves a careful balance between deference , quotation and his own selective critical comment :
If any one element in his style is to be singled out as predominant , it is expression of far-away desire never absent from the eyes and lips , and every gesture , and attitude .
Giacometti was an artist with very different artistic aims , clearly by Valerie J. Fletcher in a catalogue for an exhibition at the Museum and Garden , Washington , in 1988 .
So delicately modulated are the forms of the head that the element appears ephemeral .
This tenuous fragility with the three later busts on a stele , which have substantial anatomical forms . ``
The sculptor had decided that he wanted this bust to confront the observer .
`` In these sculptures I tried to make an eye .
I raised the head on a base until the eye is at eye level .
You see an eye . ``
This intention from the sculptor 's frequent artistic aim to make his small figures appear remote .
The catalogue has the additional interest of a memoir by Silvio Berthoud , who had sat as a boy between five and eight for his uncle :
It was not much , particularly at my age & hellip ;
I later realized that I had posed during a crucial period , and the tiny bronzes that resulted ( for that size prevailed ) continue to touch me .
Another example from the 1980s allows us to hear a conversation between the critic Norbert Lynton and the painter Ken .
set out to make an image of a man writing .
Mayakovsky 's poem `` An Amazing Adventure of Vladimir Mayakovsky `` surfaced as he worked .
It celebrates creativity amid doubt and despondency - creativity energy but also a duty , to be done by man as it is the sun 's task to shine .
This was not his intention but iconographical echoes of this sort do not surprise him .
The writer goes on to make further about the picture 's elements .
These examples of catalogues containing helpful art criticism could be contrasted with many others which are limited to lists of exhibitions , details of the artist 's career , and entries for the works .
There are other hazards for the readers of catalogues .
Some publications are less impartial than they might appear , erring on the side of generosity .
Museums with exhibitions of art from other countries are especially likely to be respectful in commentaries on works of art which have been borrowed .
All the same , museum curators will have carried out a critical task in selecting the exhibition , in some instances having fended off proposals for inclusions with a political or a particular cultural bias .
In a commercial gallery , the size of the rooms is decisive .
It might make artistic sense for the gallery to borrow some key picture to enhance the look of an exhibition , but a picture which is not for sale is an expensive use of wall space .
Finally it is safe to predict in any there will be more information than art criticism .
Buying and art is at its most dramatic in an auction , a fact houses are quick to exploit .
In the last three decades there has been considerable success for auctioneering , both in terms of money and also in prestige .
The idea that a price at auction is a definitive market price has even become quite generally accepted , although in fact auctions are subject to manipulation like other markets described by some economists as free .
An undeniable attraction of an auction is the possibility that some undervalued item may be for sale .
The auction houses employ considerable skill to ensure that the best possible prices are obtained for their clients , but all the same , a good eye and a well-stocked memory may still outwit their expertise .
An occasional deservedly catches the newspaper headlines , like the case of a picture spotted by a London dealer , David Carritt .
Sothebys were unfortunate enough to misattribute a French eighteenth-century picture , which was in fact by Fragonard .
bought it , correctly identified it as a lost early , and magnanimously it to the National Gallery , London , below the market price .
catalogues do not carry critical comments on individual items for sale , but there are sometimes introductions with criticism .
An example is the catalogue of paintings by No & euml ; l Coward , which was prefaced by a memoir of the playwright , describing his interest in painting .
In marketing a sale of rather little-known works , too , there may be some explanatory text .
It would be wrong to dismiss this sort of criticism as mere sales , particularly in grand auctioneers ' catalogues , though there is little danger of such publications being reticent .
Part of the charm of a sale is that the financial result is in itself a sort of critical judgement , reflecting even if not defining the taste and mood of the moment .
But an auction is mainly a bullish market ; vendors are trying to improve their prices , and few except dealers are selling on the market 's way down , in order to .
This bearish tactic does not work as well as in a stock market , for art works are widely , and decisions to buy or sell may be thoroughly unpredictable .
One view of the art market is that it is like a staircase with several landings .
Only dealers sell the steps , while private owners prefer the more certain floor of a landing of clearly prices for a category of work .
Correct descriptions are important to auctioneers , as can be exemplified by the coding used to list paintings .
This is the system used by Sothebys :
Such caution is prudent in a business where errors of judgement can be extremely expensive ; at least the reader of an auction catalogue knows clearly what has been taken by the cataloguer on a number of questions .
Long entries recall the cynical that the price of a painting is in ratio to the length of the bibliography in the sale catalogue .
Besides seeking to establish the authenticity of works in the sale room , auctioneers are also concerned that the title to ownership is secure .
The indirect evidence of critical approval by a succession of owners may be interesting to a reader , though admittedly this demands some special knowledge about the standing of the collectors .
Luckily for the curious , this historical sideline can be followed up in a number of publications , both about individuals and institutions .
The authentication of works of art from other parts of the world can be problematic .
For African art , say , the difficulties are complicated by lack of written or other corroboration , and knowledge extensive copying has been done .
Thefts of art works are also an international problem , especially poignant in the case of objects with cultural and religious significance .
Occasionally auctions contain items so interesting that critics in newspapers comment on their quality , not just the prices they might fetch .
More often auctions are not reviewed ; this is a pity , since the management of markets in art deserves scrutiny .
Casual visitors to art museums generally prefer short guides to the official catalogues .
Some guides are indeed very brief , suggesting visits at breakneck speed where only a few items or rooms will be seen .
Is it Tuesday between eleven o'clock and noon ?
This must be the .
A museum catalogue is an imposing task for a curator , so daunting indeed that some museums never publish .
Difficulties can be many , at the top of the list being the number of items to be catalogued .
The curator 's nightmare is somewhere like the Smithsonian Institution in Washington , where the number of items is like grains of sand on the sea shore .
A model for art museums is the catalogue of the National Gallery , London .
into national schools , in separate publications , the gallery also publishes short guides , souvenir guides , books of details , a complete photographic record of the pictures , publications on , and educational material .
The keystone of the arch of publications must be the catalogue itself , from which the authority of other writing derives .
A definition of 's oeuvre is one of the hardest problems in the history of painting .
The first difficulty is , despite the destructions , the enormous number of existing pictures , many of them signed , and in one way or another more or less Bellinesque .
It is obvious that had assistants to help him his studio ; indeed , there is documentary proof of that .
But the question of what pictures are entirely or for practical purposes 's own is answered largely by personal taste ; there is therefore a considerable divergence of view .
The catalogue of the school was published in 1959 , and written by Michael Levey .
It is associated by and Rosenberg with a group of similar portraits , and shows clear analogies of . ``
Sometimes subjects require considerable explanation or interpretation , and in these cases the museum catalogue can give definitive help .
Interpretation of iconography , the historical context of works , or personal information about sitters for portraits are only a few of the varied topics which can be spelt out in catalogues .
The level of detail may seem much the same as in a catalogue raisonn & eacute ; , but the stress in a different way .
In a catalogue raisonn & eacute ; an individual work is related primarily to other works by the artist , while a museum catalogue entry will extend to other contextual information and comparisons .
Some of the work for a museum catalogue may have already been done before the acquisition of a picture .
It may , for example , have been part of a private collection which itself was catalogued , especially if the collector in question was rich .
In this respect , the scholarly standard of a private collection 's catalogue will be very , and the sort of information which a reader can expect will be the same .
The collection will not , however , be accessible as public collections are .
In an art museum works can be studied at leisure , and will receive attention from scholars and experts of many kinds .
Besides , works can gain by the company they keep a museum collection , a landscape being in a group of works of similar date and intentions , or a portrait seen among contemporaries .
One of the important features of museum collections is the function they have as touchstones of quality and authenticity .
paradoxically , it is in museums that the market in art is defined , since permanent collections on what is available for collectors to purchase .
Further , on the basis of knowledge about museum collections , artists can find in ways of developing the art of the present .
The museum is also the place where the closest consideration can be given to the troublesome problems of fakes and other forms of inauthenticity .
Museums are at an advantage in making close examination of works in their own collections showing evidence about a picture , say , which can only be discovered by the newest scientific and technological methods .
Old-fashioned amateurs used to admire colours with a golden glow , which conservators have demonstrated were the effect of discoloured varnish .
The shape of a picture may have been altered , and the museum , though not a stray visitor , will know the fact .
In short the pictures in an art museum have been closely monitored , often through decades and in a few cases for centuries , so full descriptions that appear the catalogues have a thorough-paced authority .
It is also through observation that fakes are unmasked .
Some have been living for a disconcertingly long time in museums ; but once doubted , the evidence of inadequacy in a is quite often soon in coming .
The Metropolitan Museum in New York , for example , proudly an early bronze horse , which a sharp-eyed administrator on the staff noticed one day had a ridge .
This vital fact proved its method of manufacture did not correspond to its supposed date .
The museum made the best of a bad job .
Joseph Noble , the observant administrator , to an audience of eight hundred , `` It 's famous , but it 's a fraud . ``
More than that , it was `` one of the most important classical art forgeries ever discovered `` .
Some museums have prudently kept a collection of mistaken purchases , and even some forgeries deliberately .
A climate of artistic opinion is as tricky to predict as the weather , and also quite as changeable .
Both writers and readers are affected by generally ideas , without necessarily having given them independent thought .
One difficulty in describing a climate of opinion is this fact : that many shared views are not stated openly , but assumed .
A set of assumptions may be challenged by an outsider , and at this moment these shared views come into focus .
To look at the work of an art critic in this way we have to turn to historians of taste for the and to journalists for the present .
When we do this , we find that a critic 's range of activities varies from place to place and period to period .
Let us look at the second half of the twentieth century .
In Paris art critics are often directly associated with particular galleries , and exhibition reviews may be negotiated for a fee between a magazine or a newspaper and the artist 's .
In London historians and critics are solicited for opinions by the auction houses , sometimes but not always accepting a fee ; commissions for articles are independent decisions by editors .
In New York , gifts of pictures by artists to critics may follow a favourable review , though a critic is likely to refuse payment , even for a catalogue introduction , from a dealer .
The variations and exceptions to these brief generalised statements can be found in a number of books , some by investigative outsiders , some in memoirs by dealers and others interested in the market .
For other periods , historians are slowly making studies which document the connections of critics and historians with the markets .
A case of unwitting collusion by a critic in a manoeuvre by an art dealer occurred in 1961 , when Leo Steinberg wrote an article about Jasper Johns .
Johns was a puzzling phenomenon for Steinberg , as one of the artists of Pop Art , then hardly begun .
Steinberg knew nothing about it .
The underlying question for a reader of criticism is what influences are exerted on the critic ; but as in this instance , for long it may be impossible to know the truth .
One noticeable feature of American art life is the link between art historical teaching and criticism , not so common elsewhere .
The practice of American art historians reviewing or exhibitions , not historical shows , is a normal feature of art life .
The persuasive tax advantages for the rich to contribute works of art to public collections also play a part , contributing a measure of prestige between artists and the powerful in society .
Critics can also be invested with a degree of respect deriving partly from their academic connections .
Another sort of authority derives from money , which a reader of art criticism may find it difficult to dissociate from an object .
Historical knowledge is the surest cure for this condition , the history of taste will show many examples of the irrelevance of monetary value to artistic quality .
Incidentally , the good art critic should be the reader 's friend in refusing to be impressed by art market prices .
The art critic Peter fuller had an honourable record in this respect ; despite Julian Schnabel 's financial success , he refused to be intimidated by market values .
However , potentially educable a painter may or may not be , his work is just not worthy of serious attention by anyone with a developed taste in this particular art .
Readers need also to be wary of the existence of special markets .
The explosive prices for Teddy Bears in the last few years indicate how a market can be created , in this case by a mix of merit and nostalgia .
What is clearly a dealers ' market is often signalled by the invention of a brand name to group together a variety of material , perhaps rather disparate .
Art is an example .
The influence of an international market is not easy to be precise , though the appearance of work in a or an art can be impressive in itself .
The critic here may be acting as an exhibition organiser or co-ordinator , critical decisions being mainly limited to selection .
Private collections are examples of critical judgement in action , so that both their catalogues and the opinions expressed by collectors are worth consideration .
The collector may have views .
Albert Barnes , the rich American industrialist who formed an outstanding collection between the wars , certainly promoted his personal theories .
Barnes possessed excellent paintings by C & eacute ; zanne .
In a combative book , The Art of C & eacute ; zanne , he expounded a theory of rhythm in art which he advanced as the to C & eacute ; zanne 's success .
Barnes wrote scientific principles , he said .
Here is a passage :
Another collector with a firm sense of the importance of the pictures he had bought was Douglas Cooper .
He specialised collecting the work of four artists he considered to be the true Cubists , Picasso , , Leger and Gris .
In 1971 he was asked to organise , at the Tate Gallery , an exhibition which he called The Essential Cubism .
The catalogue amusingly contains some entries with such comments as `` Compare and this painting with two works of the `` analytical phase `` .
It would be worth knowing how many exhibition visitors obeyed these examination instructions .
Finally , the critic may well face an issue of authenticity .
Here is a description by a French expert of a visit to the painter and etcher , Dunoyer de Segonzac .
The artist was shown a watercolour :
I do n't know what to say .
I painted this bit here several times over ; that hill too .
But there 's a lack of unity .
Is the thing a fake ?
I ca n't be sure .
Perhaps I was n't on the day I painted it .
The worrying thing is my signature , which is extremely hard to counterfeit .
But this one looks impeccable .
There 's only one solution , and that is to destroy the picture .
It 's second rate , in any case ( he added ) , so the artistic loss to the world will be nil .
As for the purchaser , tell him to come to my house and choose another picture - something that both he and I like .
SNAPSHOTS : THE ARTICLES
The acid for art criticism is the exhibition .
This is the occasion a reader can visit the same show and make a personal assessment of how helpful the art critic has been .
At its best , art criticism will enable the reader to enjoy or appreciate an exhibition better .
The only virtue of these latter newspaper techniques is to bring an event to the attention of a reader .
A exhibition can vary in scope from the minimum , that is to say a show of recent work , through a more extended selection to the apogee of a retrospective exhibition .
We have already looked at writing catalogues , and can now turn our attention to the critical responses which appear articles .
The first rule for a reader of articles is thus to find a sympathetic publication .
Some trial and error should eliminate the laziest papers , whose critics do no more than catalogue introductions , or even releases .
They nevertheless will have seen some , perhaps all the works , and can thus comment usefully on the artist 's , and achievements .
The content of an article will tend to be determined by its length ; no newspaper article is likely to be more than 1 , 000 words , which precludes any chance of detailed analysis .
Indeed , an article at this length will frequently avoid mentioning any work of art by name , being limited instead to a generalised description of an artist 's work .
For example , this passage in an article on by the American critic Hilton Kramer :
a figure or a head from the scrutiny of the model who sat before him , was felt to be an `` impossible `` assault on an to elude his grasp & hellip ;
This `` difficulty `` was the moral center of his art , the very fulcrum of his style .
The article , `` 's moral heroism `` , is about a retrospective show of the sculptor 's work ten years after his death ; it does not include the name of any single work .
Or an article can be centred on a motif , as this passage about by Harold Rosenberg indicates :
By 1950 , Rothko had conceived his conclusive insigne of a disembodied absolute .
For the next twenty years , Rothko 's work consisted of reanimating this pattern with the substance of his emotional life .
It was as if he had conceived a latterday , visual version of the sonnet or the haiku .
A further way of treating an article about an exhibition is to make a comparison with another artist .
The painter Patrick Heron wrote for the New Statesman in London in the 1950s , and used this technique for writing about , whom he compared with Picasso .
The quotation is from an article of 1954 , at a time when Picasso 's reputation was very high .
Heron was anxious to point out 's qualities , so he trailed his coat openly .
Heron in his article a deep sympathy with 's work , which , incidentally , was a sort of painting he himself was seeking to practise at the time .
He argued Braque objects :
He is infinitely to all the things that go into his pictures .
Indeed , the kind of life which he bestows his or , his table , his chair and window , is just the sort of life we feel these things are really !
The personality with which invests his jug is something that the jug possesses its own right .
In other words , divines the essential spirit - one might almost call it the `` soul `` - of each object that he paints .
For this reason we have the feeling that a Braque jug is just as real and valid , just as much a distinct unity , as the jug that comes from the potter 's wheel .
A profile of the artist is another form in which to review an exhibition .
When such an article above the level of a gossip column , the artist 's profile can be a valuable format .
One source of interest can be a description of where the interview has taken place , perhaps a studio , or maybe the artist 's home .
He commented on his project : `` The more I explored , the more I became with the mystery of the environment .
Why should France have become the focal center of painting and at this particular time ?
What relationship exists between the painting and the vision of reality that the artist has before his eyes ?
At no time have I believed that environment is a complete explanation of art .
I am sure , however , that it plays an important role . ``
Here is one of the descriptions from the profile on Georges Braque :
He insisted that I visit the church and marine cemetery at Varengeville .
The small twelfth-century edifice , right above the steep cliffs that dominate the northern beaches of France , and the cemetery with its hundred tombs and crosses are in harmony with 's colors .
The church is gray ; the cemetery crosses are of white marble .
The stained-glass windows inside , and the black wrought iron and or artificial flowers outside , contribute vivid accents .
The steel-gray expanse of the northern pebbled beach , with the shadows of the high cliffs , creates the dominant black of 's marines .
I understood how much Braque had absorbed the countryside around him .
The New Yorker has a good record of articles .
was profiled by Janet Flanner , who also wrote evocatively about Picasso and Matisse .
is rather about details of Picasso 's personal life , knowing it to be so extensively documented .
But her selected information has a welcome sharpness :
Even the report of him comes from an unusual source - his own vivid memory of how he learned to walk .
What must have distinguished him as being beyond normal was his unconventionally high state of consciousness .
Magazine profiles may be carefully written and , though their facts are unlikely to be as thoroughly checked as in books .
Newspaper profiles are quite likely to be based on interviews , which have an immediate attraction , though a reader will naturally be wary about how accurately the interview may have been recorded .
Even interviews can only be read with caution , since they may have been edited , and the reader will not be told how .
Besides , it is an everyday experience that people are sometimes in conversation , and may not remember events well .
personal profiles have a strength , however , is in what the critic says about personal reactions to artist and .
One incidental advantage of personality pieces is that the magazines in which they appear may be able to afford good-quality colour reproductions .
Unluckily , this may be of little to the reader if the pictures illustrated are as mere decoration , and not the subject of critical discussion .
This is as unsatisfactory as reading a picture which is not illustrated .
The crux of a personality article is that it aims to satisfy a reader 's curiosity .
An editor 's directions to the writer of an article may be to take a populist approach , suitable for a wide audience .
The article written to this brief is likely to have an element of sensationalism ; curiosity about sex or money may be deliberately aroused ; conflicts in an artist 's life are likely to be dramatised .
Similarly , the personal lives of artists may be believed by editors to sell more newspapers than reflective criticism .
Reviews of group shows make .
The critic may choose to write about common features in the work of the artists exhibiting ; this may lead to generalisations about the group which take little account of the individual qualities of the artists .
Indeed , the assumption that they have characteristics in common may be or misleading .
The , of between artists , is also hazardous , since it refutes the idea that they have a reason for exhibiting together , even if what the critic writes is favourable .
A hostile article is even less likely to be satisfactory to a reader .
There is no problem for an antagonistic critic to find incoherence and inconsistency in a group exhibition .
To begin with , the reasons for which artists show together are .
An obvious reason is financial , since to share costs of a show is easier for the participants .
Another financial incentive is sales may be generated by the naming of a group .
At the end of the twentieth century group exhibitions perhaps do not have the importance that they have had earlier in the century .
There are many galleries through the world , and it is no longer so difficult for an artist to show independently .
Solo and exhibitions are more common , with the group playing a less important role in the market .
Artists who group together for financial reasons may choose a name which is no more explanatory than a number or numbers .
Thus in London at different times there have been groups which have called themselves the Society of Twelve , the Seven and Five , and One/Four .
It could be argued that these groups were formed as much for sociability as for making money , being made up of friends or acquaintances , but at any event their reasons fell short of definite artistic programmes .
A word of caution is in order , though , about the names of exhibiting groups .
Sometimes a number conceals a genuinely significant programme , such as the Group of Seven had in Canada .
This distinguished alliance of landscape artists to invigorate their country 's artistic life by bold treatment of wild subjects .
Tom Taylor , mentor and leader , had died before the group had its first exhibition , but remains classed with his friends .
They subsequently developed individual styles and separate interests , as is true of most groups of artists , but their appearance was defined by a programme .
Another sort of title for a group is exemplified by Der Blaue Reiter ( The Blue ) .
The second exhibition included thirty-one artists .
The main need of these artists was for good opportunities to exhibit their work ; unlike the equally group Die Br & uuml ; cke ( The Bridge ) they did not work closely together .
Impressionism is the most familiar group with an artistic programme in the nineteenth century .
Several features of its history are worth notice .
for one thing , the group did not choose the name , which came from a reviewer 's description of a painting by Monet .
Then , the artistic aims of members of the group were quite varied , and some personal animosities caused the alliance to break up .
Further , the name was partly alive by dealing , primarily by the man most heavily , Durand-Ruel .
What was perhaps most crucial to the success of Impressionism in financial terms was its modern stance , as closely identified with contemporary life at the turn of the century as Romanticism had been fifty years before .
In artistic terms , this modern stance inevitably competition .
and his colleagues argued that Pointillism was a scientifically modern style , while the Symbolists asserted that spiritual values were preferable to artistic programmes of perception .
The unfavourable reception of Impressionism by the critics is notorious ; but Impressionism was not the only group to gain a name from a review - the Fauves and Cubism this .
From a critic 's point of view , a label , whether ending in `` ism `` or not , is convenient .
The critic in a newspaper with very limited space needs such a label to give the reader a general idea of what is on display .
Using such a shorthand description for other topics .
Another consequence of the labelling of Impressionism and other groups by critics was that some artists naturally that they themselves could do the same job better than the critics .
In Western art there had been artistic programmes and manifestos before Impressionism , but in the twentieth century they proliferated .
De is an especially bold assertion of identity , the Dutch word for style implying that there is no other style worth considering .
The reader in this situation has a choice : the work in an exhibition can be measured against the artists ' manifesto ; or the critic 's interpretation and assessment can be used .
The critic necessarily has to take a manifesto into account .
Indeed , there is an implicit struggle between critic and artist ; an artist 's manifesto can be seen as a deliberate attempt to pre-empt critical comment and evaluation .
One puzzling decision for a critic to make is to decide whether to isolate any one artist as the leading figure of the group .
When this is done , there is a tendency for other artists to be compared with the leader to their disadvantage .
It is a nice matter of judgement to decide how to treat the various personalities with justice .
Sometimes the teacher is absent from the group , as Gustave was absent from the painting exhibited by the Fauves ; or , like Tom Taylor of the Group of Seven , he may be dead .
Only time and scholarship eventually sort out the various relationships of artists who worked together .
Artists can be at a disadvantage in group exhibitions as only a small part of their activity can be seen .
A small gallery may have space to show only one medium ; this may have a distorting effect on the activity of the group as a whole or of versatile individuals .
A show of their painting tells only part of their story .
The knowledge of a critic is useful here for filling in relevant background information .
The critic is also likely to spot the gaps in a group , the best works are not being shown , say perhaps because they are in private collections .
The politicising of Western art gives the existence of a manifesto special relevance .
If the aim of an exhibition is political , the evaluation of art purely aesthetic grounds is possible , but considered an irrelevance by the exhibitors .
In the longer term , it may be something aesthetic will be seen in what was intended as pure politics .
The prime example is the movement , whose nihilistic work is now for qualities of imagination .
It was originally reviled , the artists , for its rejection of conventional values of art and society .
exhibitions are ideal for spotting talent ahead of the market , as well as being a significant source of income for many artists .
The most common sort of mixed exhibition is the society , whose history is entwined with the development of art in Europe since the eighteenth century .
Denis Diderot gained lasting fame as the energetic editor of the Encyclopaedia , but he is also rightly celebrated as an art critic .
It was in 1761 , that he first wrote an account of one of the Salons , which was circulated with his other correspondence in the fashion of the time by his friend Grimm .
's standards were those primarily of a moralist , questioning how morality might be fashioned through painting , but he was sensitive to artistic aims ; his essay on painting was admired both by Goethe and .
Here is a description by Diderot of a Russian country scene by Le Prince , from criticism of the Salon in 1767 .
An old man has been playing the guitar , but he has left playing to listen to a young shepherd piping .
The old man is sitting a tree , and a young girl is near him ; I think he is blind - at least , he ought to be .
The youth is sitting at a little distance , his shepherd 's pipe in his mouth ; there is a charming simplicity in his dress and appearance ; he has a fine head .
The old man and the girl are listening attentively .
On the right are some rocks , and at the foot of them the sheep are feeding .
This picture goes straight to my heart ; I should like to lean against that tree between the old man and the girl and listen while the youth .
And when he had left playing I would go and sit by him , and a little later we would all lead the good old man to his cottage .
A that affects one thus can not be a bad picture .
Painting is the art of reaching the soul through the eyes , but if the picture to the eyes and never reaches the soul , the painter has fallen far short of his aim .
In person , incidentally , was an encouraging critic .
tells us that David always spoke of with gratitude .
It seems that David had at first great difficulty in making his way with the public , and was several times unsuccessful in his efforts after fame .
It was at this time that Diderot , who often into the artists ' studios , paid a visit to David , and saw a picture which the artist was just .
He admired it and about the artist 's meaning , and the noble ideas he attributed to him .
David listened and frankly avowed that he had not been conscious of all these grand ideas .
`` What , `` said , `` you did it from instinct without knowing what you were doing !
That is better still ! ``
David was greatly encouraged by this warm admiration expressed by a celebrated man , and it helped to develop his talent .
During the nineteenth century to be noticed was good fortune , while to be praised was a professional advantage .
This enabled some major figures to show for the first time .
By the end of the century , a pattern emerged through Europe of societies of artists breaking away from official organisations , creating groups , of which one in Austria adopted the word as a title , .
In this case selection is all , or almost all , as space does not allow for extensive description or interpretation .
Nor is there much attempting to give a general impression of a show , as there is nothing to hold it together , unlike a group with a programme or a manifesto to consider .
The only possible comment is limited to a comparison of one year with another , or of one exhibition with some comparable one .
The phrase-maker is thus king .
An apt combination of noun and adjective , a bon mot , an evocative phrase , is as much as an artist can hope for and a reader can expect .
The reader 's only remedy is to go to the exhibition .
In Victorian Britain or France during the Second Empire the critic had some taste .
It is doubtful how much a critic has today , though high claims are made for Clement Greenberg as the promoter of American Abstract Expressionism .
A cynic will remember that into the powers of newspapers has tended to conclude that readers expect to have their existing views confirmed .
If so , the power of critics may be no more than the listings services in the papers or on posters , while real power can be found in the organisation of the art market .
A different sort of exhibition which has had some success in attention , and thus newspaper coverage , is the competition .
Here the critic is absolved from making judgements of his own by the need to report what a jury has decided about prizes .
The critic 's standing is thereby reduced , and the description or evaluation of the prize works is less than likely to be uninfluenced by their new position .
How then is the reader of art criticism best advised to use criticism to follow the fortunes of artists ?
One policy is to try to see more than one review of any exhibition .
The notice board at a show where notices are pinned up will give the idea of what sort of reviews have been written .
The data common to all reviews can be discounted as being neither criticism nor evaluation .
The nuggets of real criticism are those views which are evidently based on personal reactions and responses .
Articles on exhibitions sometimes glide away into topics which have little to do with the art on display .
This will be for a reader who expects at the least some evaluation of the shows .
The arguments put forward can be interesting in themselves , but their drift is often towards making the context of the art shown more understandable .
Art politics or cultural history are favourite themes for such reviewers , apart from the spectrum of disciplines which may be the specialities of writers who are only occasionally concerned with art .
Thematic articles are likely to be found in two sorts of periodicals , general magazines and academic journals , either interdisciplinary or of disciplines .
Such articles may not start with art ; Rudolf Arnheim said his book , and Visual Perception , he applied principles of visual perception to examples taken from the arts .
Only in his more recent The Power of the Center , published in 1988 , has he been looking from art to the resources offered by psychology .
One of the intriguing questions about any thematic article is what motivated the writer ?
Some articles are clearly written as a by-product of , perhaps adapted from lectures or to form part of a book .
Others are contributions to a current debate , using art as a theme , in discussing political issues , for example .
Some thoughtful articles aim to make connections , perhaps across national and language frontiers , or between disciplines .
The reader 's criteria for judging articles will vary accordingly .
Art politics can prove a rewarding topic for a journalist .
Tom Wolfe 's book The Painted Word is a witty example of the genre ; it originally in Harper 's Magazine , before being made into a book in 1975 .
There are good satirical illustrations by the author , paralleled by a text which makes fun of American criticism , Abstract Expressionism and Art .
I read it again .
It did n't say `` something helpful `` or `` `` or even `` extremely valuable `` .
No , the word was crucial .
In short : frankly , these days , without a theory to go with it , I ca n't see a painting . ``
That is the art world - a mere hamlet - to les beaux mondes of eight cities . ``
What Wolfe provides is art criticism in a sardonic mode , created by others .
One of Wolfe 's targets is the critic Greenberg , about whom an apologist has gravely asserted : `` The significance of Clement Greenberg can not be overestimated .
He is the designer and subtle manipulator of modernism , which is the single most important and influential theory of modern art . ``
Greenberg 's name has a special glamour because of his successful advocacy of Abstract Expressionist artists against `` the dominance of the School of Paris `` , as Barbara Reise wrote .
Greenberg 's articles are marked by a confident authority , as in the following passage .
Looser paint-handling , combined with what remained an essentially Cubist sense of design , , layout , was what artists as different as Gorky and Pollock had in common during the mid-1940s .
A more political theme for an article is the issue of subsidies for the arts .
The sticking point is , generally , who should get this encouragement ?
The National Endowment for the Arts in the United States has been under heavy fire for its choices , as is usual for Ministries , whether in nineteenth-century France or the present-day USSR .
Choices for subsidies are in themselves art critical judgements , just as commissions are , and public debate can become commissions .
The art critic has no decisive voice in such controversies , though arguments can be made by analogy from existing art to what may be done .
Another form of article which can include art criticism is a theoretical paper .
For example , the cultural theory of the 1970s , according to an article by Victor on The End of Art Theory , drew predominantly on feminism , Marxism , psychoanalysis and semiotics .
In his view the independence of modernism in art has been `` further by the demonstration of the necessarily `` intertextual `` nature of the production of `` .
Cultural history and theory , it has to be said , have very extensive agenda , and art criticism is perhaps only a under a secondary heading .
The reader may be doomed to disappointment in reading an article with wide contextual terms of reference if looking for something as simple as descriptions of works of art , their interpretation and evaluation .
Articles of synthesis between art and other subjects may include important art criticism .
Literary theory is at present in demand as a point of reference for writing on the visual arts .
Articles on this sort of theme may appear in art periodicals , but are just as likely to be found in other journals , on literature , say , or history .
What is most likely to be useful in such material is the chance that inferences can be drawn by the reader , seeing a similarity in a problem elsewhere with a question in the visual arts .
AS THINGS ARE : DESCRIPTION
THE OBJECT OF ATTENTION
The description of an object is not a simple task .
An art object is especially difficult for the critic , as there are many ways in which its description can be approached .
Let us take a sculpture , depicting a girl 's nude figure , of bronze , sixty-three inches high , The Dance , by the sculptor Giacomo .
's girl is thus described by first as an artefact , and then as a person ; his terms of reference are the characteristics of two other sculptors .
This skimpy description is not unusual in a survey , and the missing positive evaluation he might have made is only implied in his choice of the sculpture for inclusion in his book .
No other information is given about the work itself , although there is a brief biographical note about the sculptor .
There are a number of other ways in which the work could
The pose , expression and figure of the girl could have been more fully interpreted in several ways beyond the comparisons with the work of two of 's colleagues .
Who is she ?
We do not know her name , though it is unlikely that the sculptor did not have a model .
The girl is anonymous , just as are the models for some religious scenes described by Giorgio .
He wrote about the famous frescoes by Giotto in the church of St Francis of Assisi :
Vasari praised Giotto 's ability to represent things visible , a highly usual expectation in the tradition of Western art .
Paintings which describe the natural world are indeed easiest for the critic to describe , since any observer can compare an object seen with the same thing .
A still life is in some ways an ideal picture to describe , a firm basis can be found in a catalogue of its components .
The genius of the painter is the genius of the home . ``
People in pictures can be more problematic to describe , since they may not be identifiable , a special difficulty with portraits .
The activities of people in pictures can be equally .
Indeed , if the story a picture is not known , quite wrong inferences can be drawn from what is perceived .
The reader of a description needs therefore to be careful about accepting as a description anything more than is actually visible on the canvas or in the sculpture .
Within a particular culture , a description can naturally go further in identifying a devout picture of a Virgin and Child , or a figure with six arms as Siva .
The Christian painting may be at once a holy picture and a convincing representation of a woman tenderly cradling her son , seen in front of a north landscape .
The statue has no such direct representational reference .
A critic unfamiliar with a culture will have trouble in formulating a description of a work .
Take African sculpture , much admired by European artists in the twentieth century for its bold forms , not representational of the figure in a Western sense .
Frank Willett in African Art :
African sculpture has been commonly described as frontal , i.e. the figures are symmetrically disposed about a vertical axis .
There are , of course , exceptions to this , but asymmetrical pieces are uncommon .
Because of their frontality African figure sculptures are commonly photographed or drawn full face , concealing the fact that the sculptor has paid a great deal of attention to the profile view .
Then he says something about the formal appeal of this sculpture to twentieth-century Western taste , because of its freedom from the canon of realism :
This account raises two significant issues about description ; one is parallel to comments on photography which have already been made .
In seeing African sculpture , the reader can remember that this art is to an extent being misrepresented by photography .
A further type of difficulty arises descriptions of works Eastern cultures .
Chinese painting and calligraphy are visual arts on much of an equal footing .
A Japanese example is the surimono , a friendly greeting for the New Year through a drawing and a message which complement each other .
Here a measure of interpretation is integral to the work itself .
The long-standing popularity of woodcut prints in the West has somewhat disguised differences in approach .
The undeniable and formal qualities of composition in works by such masters as Hokusai and Hiroshige have had demonstrable effects late-nineteenth-and twentieth-century European art .
Nevertheless , such prints are not justly even in description to mere compositional terms .
The materials , for example , attention rarely given to paintings in the West whose science is intended to create an illusion .
What the reader of criticism deserves , in sum , is an appropriate description .
There are some aspects of a work of art which can be measured , for example its size , natural or chemical composition , and some facts can be discovered about works through techniques such as infra-red photography .
These may or may not have significance ; what needs to be certain is that descriptions are accurate , for if they are , deductions from them will be valueless .
A fragment from an altarpiece can not be appraised just the same way as an independent portrait ; and a craftsman 's skill is esteemed more accurately when the materials are rightly identified .
How a spectator views an object is also not a simple matter , despite this century 's increased knowledge of the psychology of perception .
A difficulty is psychology has narrow terms of reference which can give only a few useful results , for example on the question of illusion .
A classic example of exposition , though not uncontroversial , is E. H. Gombrich 's Art of Illusion .
This usefully explores some of the resolvable questions , in particular those of crucial interest to students of landscape and the figure .
One aspect of illusion is perspective , much valued in the Western tradition .
Three sorts of perspective are identified by Leonardo da Vinci in his treatise on painting , as follows :
And the names are as follows : Linear perspective , the perspective of colour , the perspective of disappearance .
The Renaissance became enamoured of perspective , indeed Vasari thought that Paolo Uccello took it too seriously .
Mathematical perspective of a Renaissance sort had not been used in European medieval art , the size of a figure often derives from the person 's importance , God the father never being small .
A perspective may be used which reverses the convergence of lines in the distance ; instead , lines of perspective converge in front of the viewer , an unexpected phenomenon for a twentieth-century spectator to photographs .
Again , in Chinese art perspective is different from its treatment in the West .
There is sort of Chinese perspective , seen as in the West from a level viewpoint , but this is only one of three treatments of space representation .
It can be identified with p'ing yuan , one is able to see `` from the near parts to the furthest parts `` .
In this , as in Western perspective , the horizon line is somewhere below the middle of the picture .
One alternative Chinese perspective is shen yuan , in which the viewer is placed as if on a hill , and the horizon line is thus up , almost a bird 's eye view .
The third perspective is yuan , in which the viewer is looking up towards a mountain scene , as William Willetts puts it , `` successively heights represented by flat planes , each with its own horizon `` .
The point of making these comparisons is artistic practices affect how a critic should describe a landscape .
Suppose a scene is said to be in correct perspective ?
This description could mean several different things .
Yet such a comment may need to be made , nevertheless , to point out the quality of a picture .
The totems of American Indians , the carvings of , ancient bronze vessels from China , and many more examples can be found through the world and the centuries .
Most African sculpture is not in this category , as characteristically the masks and ritual objects of Africa are more evidently human or animal in appearance .
has to be taken by a critic in any of these cases to describe works as definitely as possible .
A , for example , can be described first as it appears , then as an object which has stylised figures in the sculpture .
A further example of abstract form which is not mere pattern is Tantric art .
A Tantric painting or drawing has a spiritual purpose , to assist the user in meditation .
As a sound is a mantra , so an image is a yantra , the two together making a powerful combination for spiritual exercises .
A description of a Tantric painting as a linear diagram may seem uninteresting , but then the effect of such a picture is not meant to be pleasure for the eye alone , but for religious use .
We have thought so far mainly about verbal descriptions , the stock in trade of the art critic .
There are other ways of description , which may incidentally be employed by a critic , or can be useful to a reader as a check on the validity of a verbal description .
In chapter 4 , on monographs , there were some comments on the photography of art as a complement to criticism ; there are some other issues about how accurate or misleading photographs can be .
Perhaps this is the more important in the late twentieth century now that this means of image-making is so familiar that some people actually imagine that a photograph shows the world as it is .
The images carry different information .
The physical make-up of dots in a photograph differs from the lines and granular surface of the aquatint ; the aquatint 's variations describe the picture more eloquently .
The art of civilisations other than that of the West are now more readily visible through photography , and within the limitations of the medium , usefully so .
But what do tourists actually see during a visit to India ?
Are they able to look without too dominant a preconception coming from the Western tradition ?
A different sort of description is an artist 's copy of a work .
was a well-paid occupation in nineteenth-century France , since private collectors and travellers were happy to have copies of pictures in famous collections like the Louvre .
was also part of an artist 's training , practised by and , C & eacute ; zanne and .
At the age of sixty-eight Ingres made copies of masterpieces .
Accurate copies might be made , but there is in addition a category of interpretive copy , the artist those elements which most to him .
This sort of copy is at the same time description and interpretation , the salient points being brought out by the copyist , who gains greater understanding of a masterpiece by his work .
It is not altogether satisfactory to call a print by an artist on the same theme as one of his paintings a description .
After all , it is an original work in itself .
Nevertheless , the differences between painting and may be instructive , and help the interpretation of both .
By other forms of reproduction an image may be more or less degraded , so that nothing can be learnt from them .
There remains the courtesy paid by one art to another , as in the poem which might be a high form of critical writing .
Or it may be music , as in Mussorgsky 's composition which he entitled `` Pictures from an Exhibition `` .
Describing the object is not the only sort of description that a reader can expect from a critic .
This then becomes not a description of the object itself , but of the critical appreciation or that the work gives rise to .
A hairline distinction exists between this description of personal experience and the evaluation of a work .
In an evaluation the critic may put personal feeling aside .
What is an aesthetic experience ?
The question has puzzled generations of Western historians , critics and philosophers for at least two centuries because of the difficulty of disentangling the aesthetic from other responses .
A pragmatic view is that an aesthetic experience is what is described as such , and as there are varieties of religious experience , so there may be varieties of aesthetic experience .
Let us join an American educationalist talking to children about their understanding of art .
Michael J. Parsons describes his work in How We Understand Art .
He can introduce us to some American girls and boys who spoke up about what they noticed and liked .
If Andy thought a drawing by Paul Klee looked `` sort of funny `` , he said so .
Parsons has some sensible reflections about how the children 's comments can be connected with psychological theory .
Parsons outlines five stages of cognition , which he has based on the scientific work of Kohlberg .
Other writers have used different theories , for example those of Piaget .
Herbert Read his book Education through took up the categories of types put forward by Jung .
But for our purpose , Parsons ' young friends will be good witnesses for us .
At first , Parsons tells us , `` young children rarely find fault with paintings , no matter what their subject or style & hellip ; they allow associations and memories freely to enter their response .
The common characteristic is the happy acceptance of whatever comes to mind & hellip ; paintings are a stimulus to pleasant experience . ``
This personal and inner satisfaction gives way at the next stage to taking account of the viewpoints of others , and the experience of others .
Following this , the children come to realise that pictures are part of a tradition ; finally , children may be prepared to make a judgement going beyond an individual culture .
This subtle scheme has advantages over simpler divisions .
Picasso 's Guernica is `` OK for some but I do n't like it `` , a young boy put it .
The first stage starts with a simple liking , `` I love blue `` , `` My colour is yellow `` .
In the next stages there is pleasure to be found in subjects , and in discovering that pictures can convey messages expressively .
The idea art is part of a tradition is a further step .
Whereas in stage two , detail is a pleasure , in stage four the refinement of imagery and simplicity may be enjoyed .
Comparisons between cultures become possible in the last stage .
This theory of stages in art is helpful , and it will immediately be realised that the first two stages fit in with description , the next two with interpretation , while the final stage is judgement .
The theory is not so useful in defining the quality or strength of responses , and is no help in analysing the interactions of responses .
The theory is nevertheless of a sort which can be of real use in a classroom .
Perhaps the most usual description of aesthetic experience in the last hundred years has occurred when the critic has been faced with the need to react to one isolated work of art .
It was Roger Fry 's contention that an object , say a bunch of carrots on a market , could be viewed in a practical way as something to eat for supper , or aesthetically .
This distinction can be backed up by philosophy and aesthetics , and descriptions can be found of the resultant moments of vision or epiphanies .
Our concern , however , is not with the difficulties of aesthetics , but only with what a critic writes of aesthetic experience , and how useful such an account may be .
This is an aspect of description , while it can be suggested that other religious , political or social concerns are more properly matters of interpretation .
Unfortunately it is often the case that writers do not allow themselves to be so free in autobiographical disclosures as to exactly how they felt seeing some work of art .
While they may describe the work , they avoid describing their own responses to it .
Two honest critics can be given as exceptions , the first a Japanese who recorded a negative reaction to a picture which did not come up to his standards of meaningful symbolism .
He is Toru Torada , and the picture , Blue , by Kumai .
`` Suddenly I was confronted by a huge and altogether indescribable blue figure wearing a red hat .
But the painting said nothing at all to me as I stood gazing at it .
It fulfilled none of my expectations and seemed to be merely trying to make me laugh at the fact that it had left me standing there grasping at nothing .
And that was all there was to it . ``
By contrast , here is a comment by an anthropologist who went to see the work of Mark .
`` At the end of the exhibition , looking at a painting entitled Black on Grey , and 1970 , I tried to pay attention , `` bare attention `` , to its visual forms .
But what I knew and felt . ``
What the anthropologist Jacques Maquet knew was that a few weeks after finishing this sombre painting , committed suicide .
Questions and comments , feelings and comparisons interrupting his attempt at contemplating the work .
Then , `` Instead of struggling in vain to prevent them from reaching my consciousness , I stepped back , as it were , and let thoughts and feelings come and go .
I noticed their appearance and also , alone , they disappeared too .
My previous attempts at getting rid of them had had the effect of reactivating them .
I was still overwhelmed by the painting , but I was now aware that I was , and this , somehow , seemed to establish a distance between this emotion and me . ``
IN the course of the 1970s V. S. Naipaul published two novels - Guerrillas in 1975 and A in the River in 1979 - which address the theme of alienation , marginality .
The orphan modes apparent in the novels are those , respectively , of vengeance and flight .
And there are also countries there - poor places , backwaters , as it might seem , at opposite ends of the earth .
Early in 1972 , two corpses were found in graves dug in the garden of a house near Port of Spain , Trinidad .
The house belonged to a hustler called Michael de Freitas , latterly known by his Black Muslim names , Michael X and Michael Abdul Malik .
In London , where he spent a number of years , he had gained a reputation as a crook and as a threatener of whites and defender of the population .
It turned out that Gail Benson had been stabbed and alive .
De Freitas was , with others , for the Trinidad killings .
Kate Millett and William Kunstler went about the world protesting against the trial on the grounds that it was `` political `` .
In May 1975 , De Freitas was executed .
With these events in mind , Naipaul wrote a .
He is of Hindu stock , grew up amid the elaborate racial estrangements of Trinidad , and now lives in England .
He is a writer of rare gifts , and among his gifts is a capacity to wound .
Well , it can be said that he does not allow his mercilessness to go undetected on this occasion .
And yet the treatment of his characters is not exactly what that prefatory article of his might have led one to expect .
Guerrillas is set in an imaginary Caribbean country , whose capital city is by the sea .
There are mountains nearby .
Inland , a great plain .
The landscape yields three centres of activity .
First of all , outside the city , next to a growth of forest , there is Thrushcross Grange .
Named after the mansion in Wuthering Heights , this is a desolate agricultural commune run by Jimmy Ahmed , back from London , where he has been in some vague way a celebrity .
He has extracted land and money from business interests , but his revolutionary experiment has foundered from the start .
Nathaniel Hawthorne spoke of the `` phantasmagorical antics `` he had played in describing the socialist community which appears in The Blithedale Romance : the antics in the commune conceived by Ahmed could also be called phantasmagorical .
He is also a self-styled haji , or Muslim holy man .
He has gathered about him a defecting company of slum boys , with one of whom , Bryant , of the distorted face , his hair done up in small Medusa , he sometimes makes love .
The polluted landscape , and the heat in which it languishes , are important to the novel .
The heat , and the drought , have set this country on fire .
The hills , mounds of rubbish , the verges of the roads are .
Gangs and guerrillas are talked of Wealthy people are talking of escape from a Caribbean version of James Baldwin 's `` the fire next time `` .
A white woman named Jane has come here from London , drawn by the glamour of the Third World , supposing herself to have arrived where the action is , the `` doers `` are .
She is , as she acknowledges , `` playing with fire `` .
For a while she believes that Peter Roche is a doer .
It does not take long , however , for Jane to become .
She `` knew `` that `` she had come to a place at the end of the world `` , a backwater where there was no action at all .
One of them has taken residence in a hut in Roche 's garden .
Perhaps he will be back - next time .
The novel 's third scene or zone is the city itself .
The automobile has turned the city inside out , ranging new communities around the periphery and letting the centre rot : not far from the centre is an old slum district the gangs operate .
They are a reality , whereas the guerrillas are only a dream - phantasmagorical .
But they are a reality which Naipaul in such a way that they , too , can at times seem phantasmagorical .
Everywhere , transistors give the Reggae beat , making the a party that never stops , and might catch fire .
A sense of mystery and futility is imparted by events at the and on the Ridge , and that sense is heightened by what takes place in the city the party catches fire and rioting breaks out .
Politicians rush to the airport with their loot .
Then American military helicopters drift the sky : a show of strength which is meant to secure American interests on the island , to make it safe for the bauxite investment .
Ahmed does not lead this revolution .
No one does .
It is not a revolution .
It is a mystery .
His role in relation to the disturbances is never really clarified , nor is that of Stephens , an intelligent boy who deserts the , is in touch with the gangs , and is .
The gangs exist as intimations of a power which cancels Ahmed 's to be a revolutionary leader .
That power is located in the slums , in the kinship and solidarity which prevail there , in sanctions which welfare workers will not be able to comprehend .
The angle from which the riots are studied makes them appear distant and unimportant , while also worrying .
On these occasions the eye discerns a kind of visibility in `` an area of darkness `` : this , in fact , is the title of the book which records Naipaul 's `` experience of India `` .
Here , he surrounds the politics of his imaginary country with darkness , distinguishes between its politics and what might be seen as the antics of bystanders , and on these bystanders .
At the same time , the reader can be made to feel , on closer inspection , the country 's politics might prove to be antics too .
may in consequence be open to the charge of trying to diminish both the Michael X murders and the politics of the Caribbean .
It can be said in his favour that the Michael X set seemed very like a fraud and a circus , and that these people had no deep connection with the politics of Trinidad .
It is , besides , in accordance with a dramatic momentum which reaches successive peaks with the two sexual encounters between Jane and Jimmy Ahmed .
The encounters are separated by the riots and the second is followed by Jane 's death .
Jane is a disgruntled , mean and worldly woman who presents herself the victim of the men she sets out to attract and soon sees through and .
For all her action-seeking , cosmopolitanism , she is imperial-insular in outlook , and soon sees through the Third World .
When she goes to bed with Ahmed , it is a fiasco .
He looks at her in fear : `` the cleft was like a dumb , stupid mouth . ``
Her kiss is hard and wild ; it goes with her `` `` eyes .
The later encounter is prefaced by advice from Jimmy , whose leadership pretensions are by now in ashes : `` Be calm .
You 're too greedy .
You give yourself away when you kiss like that .
A woman 's whole life is in her kiss . ``
Whereupon he calmly buggers her .
Sodomy is then compounded by a somnambulistic , almost involuntary murder , in which Bryant deals the blows .
The novel breathes a certain animus against Jane .
His words about are worth .
It is a quite Caribbean Britain has made her : a Britain at the end of the world which it used to rule .
Ahmed 's revulsion from Jane sometimes seems to be shared by the writer .
Ahmed 's revenge is too bad to be condemned by the writer , who condemns his taste in furniture , and who condemns Jane .
The tragedies of miscegenation have never been simple - ever since Othello did what he had to do to Desdemona .
But it seems clear that this one bears the marks of defeat and , and of a reprisal at the liberal England which has let the violator down .
's Caribbean country has been looted and in the past , and it is still being and .
Together with its racial enmities , this seems to have brought it to a halt , and it beyond history .
The behaviour of Naipaul 's hustler-hero , his greedy white woman , his pseudo-guerrillas and mysterious gangs , his grafting politicians with their State of Emergency , can be divided into the phantasmagorical and the political .
But these dimensions , as I have said , often appear to coincide .
His leading characters are seen to be , in some sense , petty and peripheral : but peripheral to what ?
To standards of conduct in other countries , metropolitan standards , or to something on the island ?
There may be readers who object that the novel makes a mystique of darkness and futility in the course of saying that the whole island is peripheral , arrested .
This is a possibility to which an admirer of the keeps having to revert .
Times have changed Naipaul began to write about the societies of the Caribbean : these are now less apt to seem , to the outsider , petty and remote .
His early comedies might have been taken to represent an unheard-of civility from the back of beyond .
Then , in 1961 , came A House for Mr Biswaf : a rich , spacious novel of emergence from backwardness , indeed from slavery , an emergence which is invested with irony .
's readers could well have become inclined to ask why it is that his novels seem to say that there is nothing to be done in , or with , the countries of their concern .
What are other countries doing ?
has long been a reader of Conrad , and Guerrillas can make you think of .
The geographies are similar .
Conrad 's novel is about a fire-prone seaside South American republic , with foreign investors and their concessions : its silver has its lightly rendered counterpart in Naipaul 's bauxite .
And the Conrad cry of `` Inconceivable ! `` may be weighed against Naipaul 's insistence upon areas of darkness .
Compared with what we find in Naipaul 's novel , however , Conrad 's is a country of the mind : it has the air of having been built to accommodate his meanings .
This is a very different work from Biswas .
It is brief and : it moves to the rhythms of a single drama , and the pace is perfectly judged .
Either book could be considered the masterpiece of someone whom I think of as among the most gifted authors now at work in England .
It might appear that the whole life of the later novel is in its sting , but there is more to it than .
But in , as they may be thought to have done , from journalism to fiction , Naipaul 's feelings , and their objects , underwent a change .
There is less scorn in the than there had been in the article , and a pity that must have come as surprise to readers of his work .
There must also have been readers who were led to reflect on Othello 's self-righteous murder of Desdemona , and to reflect that Shakespeare 's play expresses a view of mixed marriages which is both encouraging and .
In Guerrillas , the rebellion is mysterious , cryptic , while the sexual relationship is fully lit : a contrast also apparent , but somewhat different , in A in the River .
For much of its course , the later novel takes all this for granted .
It is what is likely to occur .
Races insult each other , and make war , and make love , and they may mix these activities up .
At the same time , the novel finds more to object to in the less objectionable aspects of these activities than many readers might anticipate .
It is the work of a writer for whom , in successive fictions , the theme of sexual dealings between people of different races has necessitated the representation of violence .
Rapes and murders occur this area , and may , of course , have to be treated .
And the theme is obviously of high consequence for the portrayal of any society race is a trouble and where one race has subdued another .
The society may be symbolised by such dealings , and through them .
Hardship and discontent may declare themselves there , in a victim 's revenge .
In addressing itself to such possibilities , however , A in the River , for all its air of simplicity , is never simple .
Its narrator and chief presence is by no means straightforwardly a victim , and the difference between oppressor and can be hard to identify .
The novel is narrated by a of Indian origin , whose family has been settled on the east coast of Africa , as traders .
Reading Salim 's palm , the man points out that he is `` faithful `` .
can be designated a Kenya : the name we give to those hard-working aliens who have been driven out of African countries , and who include the shopkeepers and merchants expropriated in Uganda by Amin .
Kenya Asians are now working in the darkness and grime of British cities , Patel is among the commonest names in the telephone directory .
is bound by certain of the rules and assumptions of kinship .
His kin are entrepreneurs , a wandering bourgeoisie : they have known what it is to be strangers in tight corners , as he himself is a stranger in this African town .
At the same time , he has wandered some distance from his kin , in spirit .
So he is both doubly an outcast and no outcast at all .
Unlike many of the towns through which he has bribed his way in his Peugeot from the coast , this one is n't `` full of blood `` .
But it is between coups , or unrests , and has lately been smashed and looted .
It is the sort of place which will always revive and rebuild , and in such a place 's part is to make good , carry on .
The country , formerly a colony , now `` independent `` , is controlled by a black `` big man `` in the capital down-river .
An atavistic , tribal , magical resistance spreads about the bush : rebels are hunted by an army , but magic bends the army 's guns .
buries his valuables - from another point of view , his ill-gotten gains - and an ominous silence descends on the town :
Sometimes I thought I could hear the noise of the rapids .
It was the eternal noise at that bend in the river , but on a normal day it could n't be heard here .
Now it seemed to come and go the wind .
At midday , when we shut the shop for lunch , and I drove through the streets , it was only the river , glittering in the hard light , seemed alive .
No dugouts , though ; only the water hyacinths travelling up from the south , and floating away to the west , clump after clump , with the thick-stalked flowers like masts .
Outside the town , a polytechnic and seminar centre has been planted by Presidential fiat .
Hitherto a shameful brothel man , is uplifted by their meetings in his flat : `` My wish for an adventure with was a wish to be taken up to the skies . ``
Blood within the town ; Raymond 's work on a collection of the President 's speeches , which could restore him to favour , languishes .
Presently the affair in insult : beats and spits on her , and to London , where he gets to know his intended bride .
When he returns to the town , he is arrested , but is free by Ferdinand , an promoted from the bush whose patron he has once been .
makes his escape on the steamer - , we take it , for his bride .
The family slave boy , Metty ( the name means ) , who had come to live with him , is firmly left behind .
This feeling is added to a previous illumination , to a stoicism which believes in `` the unity of experience and the illusion of . ``
tells 's story .
It is not Naipaul 's ; it does not constitute the author 's testament or confession on the subject of race relations and the rest of it .
An early passage separates this man , who does not want to be nothing , from the trading elders of his family - pessimists who could take risks , and were consoled by their religion .
I could never rise so high .
My own pessimism , my insecurity , was a more terrestrial affair .
I was without the religious sense of my family .
The insecurity I felt was due to my lack of true religion , and was like the small change of the exalted pessimism of our faith , the pessimism that can drive men on to do wonders .
It was the price for my more materialist attitude , my to occupy the ground , between absorption in life and above the cares of the earth .
Elsewhere separates himself from the doers and makers of the big world beyond him , of whom it is said : `` They 're making cars that will run on water . ``
Such people are `` impartial , up in the clouds , like good gods `` .
The men in the bush are watched by gods who are barely a jump above their heads : these white gods are more remote .
reads their doings in his magazines of popular science , and letting Ferdinand into the secret of his interest , he feels he is revealing his `` true self `` .
But if his `` true nature `` is to be romantically on the rise , and to have `` ideas `` , it is also his nature to occupy the ground .
It is n't lost on him that his reading matter - popular science , pornography - is `` junk `` .
For much of the time , he is the achiever who tries for a reasonable percentage .
Their relationship has tenderness in it , and treachery .
betrays his master and is then in the lurch , predicting a future whose likelihood the novel does not lead us to discount : `` They 're going to kill and kill . ``
is a misfit , as Golding 's Matty is in Darkness Visible , a novel which appeared at the same time as Naipaul 's .
English fiction loves such people ; it never tires of the lurch , of such areas of darkness .
At one point recounts his struggles and illuminations .
I do n't want to pass .
I know exactly who I am and where I stand the world .
In possessing her , he is both taken out of , and placed in possession of , himself : `` She gave me the idea of my manliness I had grown to need . ``
When the friendship begins to fail , he says : `` What she drew out of me remained extraordinary to me . ``
The affair seems to him to belong to the town , to have no future , and they are parted when the town comes under fear and .
But the of jealousy in which he beats her would appear to mean something more than these words of explanation enable one to understand .
Three of literature 's myths underlie the narrative .
They are myths of the foreign woman , which bring together achievement and betrayal , achievement and desertion .
Of the stories I have in mind , Othello and Desdemona , Samson and Delilah , Dido and Aeneas , only the third is spoken of , and it is spoken of oracularly .
The town has two Classical mottoes , one of which consists of
Latin words on the ruined monument near the dock gates : Miscerique populos , et foedera jungi .
`` He approves of the mingling of the peoples and their bonds of union `` : that was what the words , and again they were very old words , from the days of ancient Rome .
They came from a poem about the founding of Rome .
The very first hero , travelling to Italy to found his city , lands on the coast of Africa .
The local queen in love with him , and it seems that the journey to Italy might be called off .
That was how the words occurred in the old poem .
In the motto , though , three words were altered to reverse the meaning .
According to the motto , the words in granite outside our dock gates , a settlement in Africa raises no doubts : the great god approves of the mingling of peoples and the making of treaties in Africa .
There is irony here .
We are made to feel that the reversed meaning is .
Virgil 's Aeneas leaves a burning to go his adventures , his betrayal , and arrive at the , an empire is to rise .
is an Aeneas who makes it to London , where those of his blood are founding a way of life , and he has his Dido both in and in .
Perhaps this much can be said without suggesting that the book is an for Kenya Asians , which tells of a people threatened by nobodies , nothings , and to survive .
Nor is it a one-sided account of the injustices suffered by this people , or a defence of the energetic stranger .
The myths are not all equally available to the novel , and they are not enough to explain it .
This lucid and candid prose , strong in the detail of a particular time and , often ignores , and can on occasion seem to depart from , the sense of the literature it embodies .
The offended looks of the muzzy black citoyen who is put in to own 's store trade is are funny , and important , and owe nothing to the Aeneid .
But those who would prefer to explain the book as a comedy of manners , or as current affairs , might have difficulty in explaining the prominence given to the love affair .
that he was having a rough time , and was tired and suspicious of : he does not say that a tribal god commanded him to leave her .
It may be that neither statement need be held to subtract from the , but there could well be some dispute as to which of the two is the more deeply entrenched in the novel .
When his steamer quits the town , it is attacked by rebels , but manages to fight clear .
Meanwhile , in this scene , the water hyacinths proceed towards the sea , as they have been doing throughout the action .
They keep , like immigrants , or refugees , like the South-East Asian boat people subsequent to the novel .
's flight to whatever is to become of him can be compared to the movement of these flowers , and to the Romeward journey in Virgil .
His fortunes are those of a solitary who is due to return to his people and to chance it with them a further foreign place .
And they are those of a hero , as well as a drifting hyacinth .
He is a hero , with a hero 's faults : an achiever and an adventurer who is also a victim and an outcast , a shameful man and a faithful family man .
Subtly mythic and ethnocentric , the novel is one of Naipaul 's most rewarding .
It speaks of the separation of races , and of a world which mixes them up .
RONALD Fraser 's In Search of a Past was published in 1984 , and Ralph Glasser 's Growing up in the Gorbals in 1986 .
The question could be thought to arise of whether they are seeking revenge .
Authors are not supposed to avenge themselves in their writings , but they do , and if they were to be prevented , there would be far fewer books .
I am not confident that either book may be said to be well-written ; that question , too , could be thought to arise .
In Search of a Past affects not to be written at all - so much as researched , and compiled .
But the method which is applied to the data has much to display is well-spoken .
They are both interesting books because they tell interesting stories , and are arranged to dramatic effect in interesting ways .
Juliet Mitchell has called Fraser 's book `` a miniature masterpiece `` , while , according to , Glasser 's `` may well become a classic of modern autobiography `` .
Both men for the Mediterranean eventually , for reasons which may have involved a respite from British miseries and injustice .
Fraser was to be the author of Blood of Spain , an oral history of the Civil War .
Glasser was to be the author of a study of a Calabrian village , and the Spanish war bears a bleak meaning in the story he tells here .
His adult life has been spent as a psychologist and economist , on problems of development in the Third World .
He has published a second volume of autobiography , in which he deals with his years as a student at Oxford before and the world war , and is now bursar of one of the colleges there .
Ronald Fraser 's book arranges a marriage between Freud and Marx .
He had hit on the `` aim of combining two different modes of enquiry - oral history and psychoanalysis - to uncover the past in as many of its layers as possible `` .
He is saying this - outlining the aim - to his analyst in the course of the therapeutic sessions whose speech forms part of the record that constitutes almost all of the book .
He is to learn about the troubles of his early life by interviewing the servants of the family and by submitting to the interviews of psychoanalysis .
The analyst had previously referred to their sessions as a `` voyage of inner discovery `` : Fraser thinks that his tape-recordings make possible a `` voyage into the social past `` .
The latter trip may enable him to discover the `` external objects `` , the analyst thinks : `` now , through analysis , you 're seeking the internal objects . ``
`` And the two do n't always coincide `` , Fraser replies : `` That 's my vision .
Formed by the past , a person is also by it . ``
The exchange has roused the analyst to contributions that are firmer and more energy-consuming than those he generally vouchsafes : `` it 's not the but what we make of the that shapes our and . ``
Fraser observes `` analysis is more limiting because it recreates the only in the forms in which it was or repressed. ,
But it does not take long to decide that the experiment is being conducted with skill , and that the pursuits have at least a little in common .
And so doing it can often convey that a past is not a thing to be discovered .
As the analyst said , it is not discovered but made .
Ronald Fraser was not trying to determine , like certain historians of former times , what his past `` really was `` .
He talks of himself as `` `` , and as in splits of a wider incidence .
A split appears to be spoken of in the conversation from which I have just quoted : formed by the past , he is also by it .
But this is only one aspect of the bifurcation he describes .
Fraser 's fork took several forms , as I say : or one might prefer to say that there was more than one fork to reckon with .
He was never to say hello to you , and he once said that he would not be interested in his child `` until he can go out shooting with me `` .
( Elsewhere , another angry gentleman of the period , Evelyn Waugh , had waited for his children to be of an age to converse with him , before taking an interest . )
The household shot , and it rode , to hounds and in all directions , but Ronald Fraser had no love for horses .
When friendships finally became possible for him they were with children of the lower orders .
Mrs Fraser was suspected in the neighbourhood of being an enemy spy ; presently she remarried - her new husband a jolly , but for the son disturbing wing-commander .
Bert 's testimony , and 's , are probably paramount .
`` The image you give `` , Fraser tells , meaning the image she gives of himself as a boy , `` is one of dependency , extreme docility .
It was my natural character , you think , evident from birth & hellip ;
`` . had been trained in an orphanage , and he then tells her , with a smile : `` I would n't claim any privilege that an orphan was n't entitled to . ``
He reverts to the point with the analyst : `` Supposing I did n't have what a child objectively should be entitled to & hellip ; `` .
In coping with the unsaid and unsayable , oral history is impelled towards aposiopesis .
The analyst 's response is apt to consist of an `` & hellip ; ``
But if the work is oral history , it is literature too - a disclosure of predicament and bereavement .
The enigmatic three dots to which it is are those of a romantic orphan , as well as those of his reticent doctor .
A romantic orphan , though , who was able to accept that he had caused his brother to suffer .
In all this there was plenty of scope for an awareness and endurance of contradiction .
Contradictions , , can readily be perceived , by those minded to perceive them ; pursuits that can be married , like oral history and psychoanalysis , can be found to separate .
What is what happens when the , who incorporates his past , incorporates and transforms the divisions which are part of that past .
Fraser reflects : `` Two mothers and I 'm torn between them & hellip ; `` .
Torn between `` the distant star and the , close moon `` .
And neither of the women was to prove `` sufficient `` .
`` You split them `` , prompts the analyst , `` into the good and the bad mother . ``
The analyst proceeds : 'All mothers have to be frustrating as well as .
But being consoled by another mother who seems makes it harder to reconcile the two & hellip ; `` .
This appears to be a key point , but it is one is controversial .
It is possible to imagine for some people such consolation might make it easier to reconcile the two , and to wonder what it was made the difference in Fraser 's case .
There were other things that had to be reconciled , and we hear presently of `` a role of inherent superiority which came to me from outside , from the servants among others .
Inside , however , I felt inherently inferior , inadequate to fill the role .
That was the & hellip ; ``
( Fraser 's dots ) .
He asks the daughter of the refugee , remembering the days when he made love with this daughter , if she had known two different boys .
Later in the book Mr Fraser recognises that he has talked both of rubbing out the and of preserving it : `` The aims seem contradictory , do n't they ?
But they 're the same .
I kept the past alive out of a desire for revenge .
One day I would write it - and them - off the face of the earth & hellip ; `` .
He is referring to his parents , I think .
`` Uh-huh & hellip ; `` .
`` And for `` , Fraser adds , `` to destroy her & hellip ; `` .
Is the book , then , a `` monument to destruction `` ?
Despite its title , and for all Fraser 's and civil investigative demeanour , the book does not exhibit this as something to be searched for , uncovered , so much as something which is unfindable , interminable .
Understanding is , rather as it is in certain recent theoretical accounts of the way literature works .
But this does not diminish the importance of the provisional discoveries which it contains , which the writer has moved to incorporate .
This is a that can rarely have been witnessed in Glasgow - which does not indicate that he was at fault in consulting his analyst , but does indicate that these autobiographies are sited very different places .
He belonged to a family of immigrant Jews which had fled to a Glasgow tenement and a community of Yiddish-speakers within the city .
Round the corner was Dixon 's Blazes , a blast , and the Workers ' Circle , dreams of socialist emancipation were debated - dreams which were soon to fade for Glasser .
Nor was he able to believe in the religion of his community .
Anti-Semitism was not , it appears , a major threat in an environment many kinds of threat and affliction - such as its gangster debt-collectors , the `` menodge men `` - competed for consciousness .
His mother died , worn out by making ends meet and by her husband 's gambling .
Glasser still stands in awe of this formidable , feckless man .
His sisters were to flee the family , precipitating an ordeal of severance which compounded others and him to the quick .
The Gorbals comes across , in careful descriptions , as a ferocious place .
The trouble is that the allegation has begun to seem convincing .
`` The hovels and the vennels `` of the nineteenth-century Scottish city have been projected into the sky ; the lower depths of the Thirties have not gone from urban Britain .
And we have a government which has been slow to worry whether the people there die of Aids .
At one stage Glasser is invited to look at a tenement - by Bernard , a Communist who was to fight in Spain and with an altered mind .
In Spain Bernard questioned the principle that the end justifies the means - `` the price was too `` - and it had almost `` cost him his life `` .
( But can this be said to have been what happened ?
The book has explained , having been a murderer of unreliables for the Republicans , he was shot at by a and went back to Glasgow . )
At this earlier stage Ralph goes into the and takes a look at the price of capitalism .
Nearly all the stone in the first flight up to the half-landing were , with jagged edges bits of tread had fallen away .
Some had almost no .
Plaster had come away from the walls from ceiling to floor , and the lower part the bared cement , originally grey , was and smelt of urine .
The detritus had stuck to the pitted surface in a wide streaky band as it slid lumpily from chest height to the floor .
Judging by the strength or its smell , a mixture of beer and fish and chips , the vomit was recent .
Another powerful smell , of decaying rubbish , came mainly from the ash-pits at the far end of the corridor , but also from a deposit scattered the floor .
Despite the cold wet wind blowing in hard from the street , the cloud of mephitic vapours lingered stupefyingly about our heads .
`` Mephitic `` might be compared with Fraser 's `` ulcerous `` in `` Resentment up like an ulcerous vapour `` .
Glasser 's vapours are different from Fraser 's .
They stink , while Fraser 's are mental .
Both men lived through the Depression , but Fraser 's depressions were only indirectly linked with the hardships of people he knew .
At the same time , these hardships are a focus of his attention .
The two words carry a note of declamation - a note otherwise absent from Fraser 's account .
Glasser 's prose is sometimes declamatory and sententious in an old-fashioned sort of way , and sometimes awkward ( `` Hidden in the near future , he was to be proved right `` ) .
But it rises to many of its ferocious and grievous occasions .
We are in the Scotland of TB , pneumonia and , in which sex is spoken of as a matter of men attacking women .
At the end of the corridor which he describes , before you get to the rubbish , is the place where the young love .
Their elders make it upstairs in the flats , attended by small children - brothers and sisters who grow up in the Gorbals , Glasser says , to try it with each other .
About these matters it seems to me that he writes really well , in a manner that might suggest the translation of a Latin author anxious to tell the truth .
Afterwards she parted the curtains and came out naked to lift the unsleeping , finely aware child back into bed , to lie between her and the man lying in post-coital sleep .
And then and child might lie awake for a while , in unique perplexities .
She , her body prompting her still , with no finality in her , turned her world over and over again in her mind 's restless fingers .
At the beginning of the book a dear friend , Charlie , another boy , for Russia with his family - for the land , they hope , of the free .
Ralph strives to address `` the high yins of Russia `` to solicit news of the family , and receives his letter back from the Embassy in London , stamped : `` Communication not permitted . ``
And the family was never heard of again .
Glasser orders his events thematically , while also to tell a story and to spring surprises .
Among those closest who should have been frightened was Annie , his girl for a while .
Annie left him , and then , pregnant , offered herself in order to saddle him with someone else 's child - and this when he had just received a telegram awarding him a scholarship to Oxford .
Just when his ship was coming in she might have set fire to it .
He condemns her for trying this trick , which is followed by a terrible downstairs in the course of an attempt to end her pregnancy .
She had known that his love for her would remain , and `` for her to have acted on that knowledge `` in resorting to the deception `` made her deed unforgivable `` .
Lilian , the older sister , errs by studying to become a money-minded businesswoman with a grudge and a smart flat , and by blackmailing her employer , also her lover , by means of an abortion .
Glasser talks of her as if , in walking out , she had gone on to walk the streets .
She is seen to suffer for what she did , and Mary , the other sister , likewise `` paid heavily `` : let down by an Indian student with whom she had been having a long affair .
This is a male view of the matter , in which women are attacked , and which had me admiring these ugly sisters .
A father 's influence which has been revealed as destructive and all but disastrous is thought to have remained dominant - as was natural - until the women broke away for good .
An author is taking his revenge in setting down these judgements , begrudging the grudges of others - while uttering , this once , the cry of the deserted child .
Neither of these books , however , could be said to be intent on revenge .
Glasser presents a full picture of the behaviour , good and bad , which he encountered an area of maximum difficulty , and it is not often such a picture has been presented .
Another fallacious account comes to mind .
The sexuality of the past , and the extent of the intimidatory violence , were only very faintly registered .
Esther had quite as hard a time of it as Annie , one might feel , but even so , Moore 's spirited novel can be thought to settle for an anodyne poverty .
To say this is not the same as complaining of his acknowledgement poor people can have a good time .
No in that .
There were pleasures for both boys in the course of their growing-up .
But what is most striking about both books is the sense they give of how desolate and enclosed an adolescence could be , at opposite ends of the society .
Julian 's got a knife . ``
At another party , in the South of France , a reefer is placed between his lips by a girl whose trousers fall down .
`` I had scaled magic heights and found obscurantism , absence of hope , a world infinitely darker than I had ever imagined possible from where I had stood in the Gorbals . ``
I can only hope that the bursar now inhabits a wholly healthy Oxford .
PETER Ackroyd 's novels and Chatterton do much to explain one another .
Both books mingle old times and new times , and both give expression to fantasies of replication , with a hard to follow .
Its old times are brilliantly rendered , and its appeal is in part generic .
speaks the words of romantic duality , and is in a number of ways a double book .
It consists of two alternating narratives , one of which is set in the eighteenth century and the other in the present , with the earlier delivered in the first person .
Both of these men are or mad .
The later crimes duplicate those committed by Dyer , who has wished to baptise his churches with the blood of young victims .
thinks of himself as `` a stranger to mankind `` ; his life is led apart , `` in a Corner `` .
He has grown up as one of `` the orphans of the plague `` who roam the streets of the city in the aftermath of the plague and of the fire that followed it .
The romantic equation of orphan and monster makes a Satanist of this forlorn : `` nor can we but by doing avoid the rage of evil Spirits . ``
His is a theology in which Adam is unredeemed , and life itself a plague .
London is a necropolis , its every corner the site of a murder , its soil a pudding of blood and tears .
Out of this soil soar elegant churches , each of which encodes the symbols of an alien religion .
The St So-and-So 's which Dyer has been commissioned to build are so many secret temples of .
The experiments , proofs and improvements espoused by such scientists as Christopher Wren , Dyer 's patron in the building trade , Dyer pisses on .
The homicides and postmortems in the book permit the new religion of science to exercise its power : but they also the necrophile broodings which exude from Dyer .
The poem is dark , dense and - Yeatsian , and maybe also Yatesian , in inspiration , amid much else .
It is hard to be how much of this stuff Sinclair believes - as it is hard to be how much Eliot believed of the lore which accompanies the stuff of The Waste , another London poem .
The two poems could be thought to occupy a common ground which goes some way beyond topography , and includes a stretch of the common ground occupied by imitation .
Sinclair 's , at all events , is the work of a Modernist , and is unlikely to be that of an occultist .
This makes it , in a sense , compatible with .
But is a different beast .
The novel suggests itself the work of a novelist intent on a gruesome entertainment .
Both works , however , may be thought to share a , and a set of clues , which to the recrudescence of a hippy magic .
Pastiche is a dualistic activity , and it is an activity which can lend itself to the expression of paranoid feelings and unacted desires .
A writer is copied by `` someone other `` than himself , and `` someone other `` can in a manner of speaking become the writer he copies : the biter bit .
The expression I am quoting is uttered by Dyer , and it is an expression which Ackroyd is given to using his books .
In pretending here to be someone other than himself who keeps murdering people , he does a tremendous job : this is a more than serviceable argot for the age in question and for the wizard in question .
The and self-conscious singular in Dyer could be considered a creation of the Gothic novel that came after him , and can also bring to mind the magus of a time before .
But there is no nagging sense of anachronism .
How could there be ? the novel seems to be saying .
There is no such thing as anachronism .
All ages are .
The later stranglings look like a copy of what happened , at the hands of a sorcerer , in the past , and Peter Ackroyd is very interested in copies .
As is usual in such cases , the copy is not exact .
Both inspectors are presented as more interesting than the colleagues and they move among .
Meanwhile the interesting Hawksmoor is less interesting than Dyer , and may be meant to be .
`` Time will tell , sir `` , a colleague , and replies : `` Time will not tell .
Time never tells . ``
Once more he raised his arm involuntarily , as if in greeting . ``
It is hard to think that the novelist intended the reader to find this even more gnomic and exasperating than the colleague seems to find it .
But there may indeed be some such aim .
Can the author be detected in this novel - come upon in his corner ?
The attitude to time might tell us what he thinks , but it is the most inscrutable aspect of the novel .
The motto refers to a dynastic permanence ; but it could be stolen for this novel , a `` now and always `` is on show .
The Gothic novel was shaped to take account of such a world , and to do so , very often , in the guise of entertainment .
Since its arrival in the eighteenth century , this is a literary mode which has recurrently been dead but which has been capable of renewal , and now Ackroyd has given a further turn to the wheel .
Once again , a sufferer is seen to be mad , and his fearful sense of what he is up to can be seen to dominate the book in which it is in the end or controverted .
Such a book has to be divided - between hope and , improvement and depravity .
It will be the work both of one hand and of the other .
And one of these hands may wield the instrument of pastiche .
All four books reveal a steady concern with imitation and interpretation , and to read them together is to be clearer about what it is that the writer intends us to think that he thinks about things .
He would appear to believe in an invented truth , an invented reality - a Rortyan reality , one might be to call it at times .
He believes that a writer will often find himself through exposure to some other writer .
And it is apparent that Ackroyd has found himself in this manner - through exposure to Wilde , Eliot , and now Chatterton .
This brings with it the corollary that it is not always apparent whether the beliefs he expresses are Ackroyd 's or those of the writer to whom he is , or both .
Interpreters must therefore beware , a little , in doing what they are generally allowed to do .
All four books speak of a `` someone other `` .
In Hawksmoor Ned the tramp encounters a `` someone other `` in his double , and in Chatterton Charles Wychwood 's double is another `` someone other `` .
Eliot was able to `` recognise himself through someone other `` - a changeable , but at one it was the Frenchman .
`` The first law of the imagination `` , states Ackroyd 's Wilde , is `` in his the artist is someone other than himself . ``
Greek love is virtuous , Wilde is also represented saying , because `` men can live perfect equality , each finding in the the image of his own soul `` .
It is plain that there are many ways of being and of imagining a someone other .
Art may imagine , and Greek love may .
Paranoia imagines , and so does pastiche .
And Ackroyd comes to vivid life as a pasticheur .
Still , such claims do seem to have force when fitted to the case of the writer who is making or mediating them .
's truest prose occurs when he applies himself to the imitation of ancient and recent writers - a repertoire of others .
This , of course , is what Chatterton , Wordsworth 's `` marvellous boy `` , did in the plagiaristic eighteenth century .
Like Chatterton , Peter Ackroyd is , in the words of his novel about Chatterton a `` great Parodist `` , a `` great Plagiarist `` .
It is deemed to follow from such that human history is `` a succession of interpretations `` , a piling-up of imitations , an accumulation of metaphor which will be perceived as reality .
And literature will amount to the same thing : all writers are copycats .
Those who prefer to believe in an indivisible single self capable of originality will be sceptical of the scepticism .
They will make less than he does of that part of Eliot which was a `` good ventriloquist `` .
And they will undoubtedly object to the more unbridled formulations that enter the three fictions ; the biography of Eliot has plenty to say on the subject , too , while maintaining a comparative , and suitable , .
Peter Ackroyd has here performed the not impossible feat of plagiarising himself - while leaving the reader in doubt as to whether the writer this implausible estimate of Chatterton 's marvellous buoyancy .
He is the artist 's friend , and a friend of the mimic and poseur , in a world of masks , multiplicities , contraries and successive interpretations .
The Wilde apocrypha contains a joke which says it all - or a fair part of it .
Some good thing had been voiced , and Wilde had remarked that he wished that he had said it - and was then told : .
`` You will , , you will . ``
's Wilde complains of the `` sordid `` interpretations of his conduct which had influenced the outcome of his trial , while himself , on other occasions , interpreting his conduct as sordid .
He also confounds his own dualistic zeal by recalling the wise words ( as one may truly think them ) of the dualistic mage : `` Be not another , if thou be thyself . ``
Romantic poets were keen to vindicate Chatterton , and to cherish his untimely death as that of a sacrificial victim : here was a spilling of young blood that might have watered the purlieus of a church .
Charles belongs , moreover , to a cast of outcasts , monsters , hustlers and impostors which composes a literary London reminiscent of the early novels of Muriel , and from brutally inauthentic .
The queen of the authors is Harriet Scrope , novelist , , and ferocious egotist , whose war against the world she inhabits extends to her best friend and her cat .
a comic portrait of the artist , Harriet .
She is estranged and she is hostile .
She is a bit like Dyer .
His story is interwoven with , and is replicated , a modern tale , in which Charles Wychwood 's comet-like career is featured .
Then there is a third story .
is as much as anything the famous painting of his death in a Holborn attic done in the 1850s by Henry Wallis - with the poet lying across the bed in a kind of frozen entrechat .
It looks like an enlargement of the postcard which , in an age of mechanical reproduction , it was to become , commemorating the tourist attraction which it was also to become .
The third narrative tells how George Meredith for the corpse in the painting and how his wife then ran away with the painter ( see also the sonnets in Meredith 's Modern Love ) .
The three tales are deftly and get very well together .
is represented in the as an accidental suicide - slain by a cocktail of arsenic and laudanum for a venereal infection .
The portraits of Chatterton have something of the importance to the that the and ageing likeness has in The Picture of Dorian Gray .
Like and The Last Testament of Oscar Wilde , this novel is a tour de force .
And it could be said that not only is it about imitation - it is also , as are other tours de force , itself an imitation of something .
Like other tours de force , it is done in a spirit of play and of emulation .
It is a contender : a colleague of 's on The Times announced that it was a `` sure contender `` for the Booker Prize of 1987 ( which it did n't receive ) .
It observes one of Wilde 's principles of literature in responding to the importance of not being `` serious `` .
It shows what the writer can do rather than what he thinks .
The book says that Eliot 's truest poetry was a form of plagiarism , in the benign sense that `` it was only in response to other poetry that Eliot could express his own deepest feelings `` .
notices that the Eliot who had once called poetry a `` mug 's game `` was eventually , in his The Elder Statesman , to use the same expression for forgery .
That order was eventually discovered in the teachings of Christianity .
When he turned to it was to someone other : he was surrendering to `` something outside oneself `` .
The book depicts Eliot as a parodist , a plagiarist , a responder to other people 's poems , and as a seeker of shelter .
And yet in its passages we learn that as a poet he had `` no real predecessors `` .
He was his own man , after all .
In other respects , however , this is a cogent and sensible account ( which was constrained by a barbarous embargo on quotation ) .
I do n't think that its readers can have had much trouble in finding in the life and work the responsiveness finds in them .
But perhaps it is the paradox conveyed by that glimpse of a parodic but unprecedented Eliot which carries the sharpest conviction of any feature of the book .
From the ordeal of his first marriage to the late happiness of the second , the book locks , at one level , into a recital of misfortunes and a medical record .
Constant debilitating `` work `` , in and public life , and a constant invocation of the claims of such work .
after lecture , accompanied by complaints about the futility of lectures and his reluctance to give them .
It is almost as if we are confronted here by a replication of the poor Tom described in Ackroyd 's novel by another poor Tom of later times .
And perhaps we might imagine that they are the same but different .
Eliot was to tell the poet F. T. Prince : `` Not everything you write is very interesting . ``
died the romantic and traditional early death of the divided , the invaded man , while Eliot did not .
It is n't asks us to compare these two poor Toms , in pursuit of a theory alleging the importance of imitation .
He was worshipped then for his talent and untimely death - perhaps a little as Eliot was to be worshipped , in the 1940s and '50s , for his saintly abstention from the world .
Keats placed him among the stars , Keats himself , for similar reasons , was to be placed by Shelley .
became a topos , and the numbers lisped : `` O Chatterton , how very sad thy fate `` , `` gently , sweet `` , `` Good for you , Chatterton `` .
Readers can be expected to spot which of these quotations are forgeries , and they must also have doubted in their time whether this writer was as good as the early tributes out .
It seems , however , need n't have had prodigious talent for the talent in the novel to take effect .
It plays with such ideas , to a Shavian pitch of exaggeration : but it is not a novel of ideas , any more than it is a heartless game .
It has people in it , with lives to live .
It has Charles in it , whose plight is more touching than anything in the nineteenth-century retrospects of .
It has its predecessors in the romantic tradition - a tradition which includes the self-important single self nevertheless prone to dispersal and division , invasion and impersonation , which includes the victim and his alter ego .
At the same time , both here and in , Ackroyd , too , is his own man .
For all his procedures , I do n't think he is actually imitating anybody .
Ariel goes to the police
They are writers who have parted company , but who are in some ways at .
These are portraits of the artist who grows up in an age of revolutionary socialism and who has to make what he can of it .
Revolution , and its betrayal by a regime which both prescribes and proscribes literature , are described both works .
Both men are interested in the subject of remembering and forgetting .
may perhaps be a common name in Czechoslovakia , and Kundera has become a common name in the conversation of Western readers , who are drawn to these reciprocal concerns of his .
We have liked him for being into free speech and free love , and for what he has to say convergences of the two , and about the curbs which revolution and its regimes has placed on them .
The West has been grateful to Kundera , extravagantly so at times , and has shown an impulse to beat itself with his playful fictions .
Heads have been turned , and have begun to swim , amid the flow of invention , in works which have been in rapid succession and which are not always easy to tell apart .
Which is the one that has litost - a form of - and what does he mean by `` unbearable lightness of being `` ?
Which of these two conceptions , for that matter , we may even sometimes wonder , is which ?
But it seems safe to say that there are circumstances in which and glasnost can be recognised as enemies , and that this enmity can be recognised in the Life is elsewhere .
His fertility , narrative gift , gift for experiments and impromptus , are such as to bewilder the attempt to form a judgement of any particular work .
Not that he can mind that .
Many of his most memorable literary effects attest to this .
The British reader has only to listen to the sounds makes his own streets , to the cruel , brutal voices that loudhailers about injustice and the disadvantaged .
In thinking about what Stalinism to his country , Kundera thinks of the this despotism has received from the writers of his country , and of other countries .
Literature , with its store of memories , is suspected by the state : and yet the state is served by certain writers .
Tyranny is a force which locks writers up and which self-serving lyrical writers may assist .
It was published in America in 1974 , translated by Peter Kussi , who has revised his translation for the new edition of 1986 which I am discussing here .
The provisional title to the life-span of Jaromil , who dies young , as lyric poets will , but also to the enforced , mass-produced , writer-proclaimed revolutionary ardours which ensued in 1948 .
His first - to make use of Klima 's title - prove to be his last , but prove engrossing to him the lyrics in which his emotional development is .
is not so much a character as a type , and is not unlike the poet in Shaw 's , Eugene Marchbanks .
Aerial creatures , these , ineffectual angels .
Eugene , `` so uncommon as to be almost unearthly `` , wants to go `` up into the sky `` .
His brow is `` lined with pity `` .
He speaks with `` lyric rapture `` .
But he is all right when you get to know him .
`` Do n't say is a bad poet ! ``
's 1986 Postscript .
He is a `` sensitive young man `` - a monster too , but the same monster is in you and me .
And the same monster was in Shelley , and Rimbaud , and Victor Hugo .
and his mother are portrayed , we learn from the Postscript , quite without any satirical intention .
In that respect , Kundera could have fooled at least one of his readers ; but I do see that it belongs to the point of it all that the uncommon should be thought humanly representative .
Soon he is writing modern poems .
`` This verse a boy who had been trembling in front of the bathroom door , but at the same time this boy was swallowed up by the verse ; it surmounted and survived him .
Alas , my aquatic love , said another line , and Jaromil knew that the aquatic love was Magda ; but he also knew that nobody else could find her in that line & hellip ; `` .
These lines are short and do not rhyme .
They are free .
was lost in a poem which was `` as independent and unintelligible as reality itself .
Reality does not discuss , it simply is .
The independence of the poem provided Jaromil with a marvellous world of concealment , the possibility of a second existence . ``
has discovered that writing can be what reading has familiarly been for the ordinary person : an escape , a shelter , a door to the self .
Much later we read :
Everything seemed to indicate that Jaromil 's enormous for newness ( the religion of the New ) was only the disguised longing of a virginal youth for the unimaginable experience of the sex .
By now he has also reached `` the realm of real life `` - by which he `` understood a whirling world of parading throngs , physical love and revolutionary slogans `` .
It turns out real life , that the revolution wishes its poetry to do so .
There is a magical power in rhyme and rhythm .
`` Can a revolution dispense with repeated affirmation of the new order ?
Can a revolution dispense with rhyme ? ``
By now free verse has been exposed as , and modern art as the shopworn property of the bourgeois masses .
Lyricism , then , is the poetry which sings along with the triumph of the proletariat , and with the repressions which accompany its triumph .
What is required is a poetry which does not analyse or criticise , and is suitable for throngs and : we are in a situation where the self-portraits of the author can be displayed like placards .
Lyricism is inexperience , and it is the desire for glory .
By the end of the has forsworn his artist friend , who is under the ban of the regime and compelled to paint by candlelight : `` The whole world of his pictures has been dead for years .
Real life is elsewhere ! ``
We are told that these last four words are Rimbaud 's and the Surrealist Andr & eacute ; Breton 's , and in 1968 they were a slogan of the protesting students .
asks us to join together two things that are often kept apart : lyrical effusions and public poetry .
Just before this snarl about real life , he has betrayed his redhead to the police , by swallowing a lying excuse of hers concerning a subversive brother .
The poets Milosz and Donald Davie have been bothered by the insufficiency and irresponsibility of the genre , and it could be felt that Kundera goes further than they do in denouncing the lyric , and worse .
The lyricism that sells out to a state-ordained reality and solidarity is not the only lyricism we know , and it is the of much of what we know by that name .
Youthful as some of them are , the lyrics of Heaney do not embody the genius of inexperience , whatever some of Shelley 's may do .
In other words , Kundera 's novel isolates certain tendencies in the behaviour of poets ( and others ) in order to prosecute an attack on Stalinist Czechoslovakia .
It will be clear to most people here that the attack is , and that writers out .
's adventures , moreover , are shrewdly observed .
Lyricism can indeed be very like this description of it .
This aim has a sweepingness and a suspendingness which are apparent , too , in the novel to which it relates .
The lyric is not generically debarred from standing out against the state , or from taking a generous interest in what goes on in the world .
's lyric about the `` Kremlin `` - Klima 's `` great Generalissimo `` , Stalin - sent him to the camps .
The boy poet loves literature , and pities himself , in a work which pities those around him .
There is a lot to pity them for - the stories on ghetto hardships , on murders and deportations .
His father , socialist , is jailed by the socialist regime whose discipline replaces that of the SS .
's first loves have a way of not working out ; and what may have been his longest affair is the one about which least is said .
In the story Miriam distributes milk to the tenement building and favours the boy with an extra helping : but he never gets to tell her that he is the author of poems `` about love .
About suicide . ``
The second story is set and a country hotel , the wife of a coarse doctor takes a more than kindly interest in a wide-awake to the sights and sounds of this paradise .
The story at a funeral , hovered over by a surreal balloon , from which hangs a fancied acrobat .
The boy 's hand is squeezed by the wife .
He is in two minds .
Then there is the tale of a lying girl , as she may be , with whom he makes love , and who alarms him with word of a threatening German - a former SS man , perhaps .
He has her report the matter to the police .
This is a lapse on his part , but is hardly comparable with Jaromil 's treatment of his mendacious redhead .
's girl disappears into the Prague , leaving him with an imaginary address .
She is rather like a lyric author herself , a bit of a lyre .
The last story has to do with the girlfriend of a friend .
Literary , , sick , she holds out a hand to him : he clasps it , but then decides he ca n't go on .
Is Klima , the angry friend alleges on this occasion , a flirt , who goes from girl to girl ?
The stories do well to return an uncertain answer .
Through them , somewhat in the spirit of Chagall , runs the aerial preoccupation of romantic escapism .
Balloons , a high-wire circus act teeters .
In the last story comes to see `` the connection between heights and vertigo , ecstasy and , and `` .
The literary girl waxes lyrical .
A person who accepted love was like a passenger .
Maybe on a boat , at night , on some vast lake .
Whichever way you looked there was nothing but calm black water .
It was true that the water might rise and swamp you .
But to love someone meant to fly , to rise above the earth yourself .
So high that you could see everything .
Even if the world looked different from that height , even if it looked , even if what on the ground seemed important was transformed into insignificance .
She 'd say , moreover , that you could always get out of a boat and go ashore , but from that height you could only crash .
The blessed piece of earth over which float these balloons , over which are poised these acrobats , is a corner of painful Czechoslovakia .
Klima 's stories breathe a delicate patriotism - which is not absent , either , from Kundera 's accounts of a country which is harder to inhabit , or remain in , or to .
For both men , Czechoslovakia is both painful and blissful .
It is not surprising that the Czech novelist Skvorecky should be keen on My First .
Skvorecky left his country to teach in North America - as did the - and has improved the shining hours of a Canadian exile .
But Klima has gone back .
It has been said of him that he would rather live his native country , and not be allowed to publish , than go elsewhere and be free to do so .
Reality is in Czechoslovakia ?
A challenging attitude on his part , if the story in question is correct .
It should not persuade us that this writer has yielded or sold out , any more than it should persuade us that the boy poet is in every sense the boy poet .
It is possible to suggest that the two poets resemble one another .
Each is inexperienced , youthful .
Each fancies a second existence , wants to float free .
Each feels sorry for himself .
Each is lyrical .
But the lyricism of the character `` `` can be considered an element in the lyricism of Ivan Klima , and be thought to encounter there its own critique .
As for that business of going to the police , I am sorry I mentioned it .
There is nothing in the stories to suggest that either of these lyrical Klimas has the makings of the hero of the state imagined by Kundera .
WE live at a time when reporters go to foreign countries there is trouble and come back to write books in which they say that it was hard to make out what was going on .
When they say this , they are apt to be called writers .
Writers do n't know what is going on .
But they can be good at conveying what it was like for them to be there , and to be writing it down .
The journalists to whom I am referring can more solemnly be said to be practising a modern art of indirection , of the unintelligible and the interminable .
It is as if the war , crisis , hell or chaotic backwater can never be known and will never end .
After a while you fly out .
A leading exponent of these mysteries is the novelist and journalist V. S. Naipaul , whose foreign countries are , as we have already seen , areas of darkness , coups and crises are but may remain enigmatic .
Another is Ryszard , an expert in what he calls `` confusion `` , who has attended twenty-seven revolutions in the Third World .
These revolutions , he believably reports , have been confusions .
There he sat his writer 's hotel room , venturing out into a series of tight corners , filing his copy , then leaving for Warsaw to compose his short books - physically slight but with these confusions .
They are marvellously done , and they have caused a stir of approval in this country , while also raising doubts .
In the New Left Review , Benedict Anderson has made sharp criticisms of the work of the journalist and poet James Fenton which compare it with that of and .
These three writers are tagged as representatives of two hardly very different types or , Third Worldly literary tourist .
Kapuscinski exercises a personal charm which must have helped him to establish friendly relations with the people he met , and to gather material , and which can seem to befriend the Western reader .
Born in 1932 , he retired as a foreign correspondent for the Polish Press Agency in 1981 , by which time his three books had started to come out .
They describe three : that of the Emperor Haile Selassie , that of the and that of the colonial masters of Angola .
No from power within the Eastern bloc of nations is mentioned in any of the books .
The Ethiopian book , published in Britain in 1983 , showed him to be a writer interested in `` autocrats `` - in absolute power and in the transformation of that power into its indistinguishable .
He says that it is `` difficult to say when omnipotence becomes powerlessness `` .
Not that the stories of Haile Selassie and the are any great advertisement for the omnipotence of omnipotence .
Both rulers had reason to fear .
Both of them , though , were rulers whom Western journalists used to admire : they were jewels in the crown of freedom , and yet endearingly autocratic .
Kapuscinski 's first two books will serve to deter any cult of the dear dead kings in question .
In The Emperor he writes :
For the starvelings it had to suffice that His Munificent Highness personally attached the greatest importance to their fate , which was a very special kind of attachment , of an order higher than the highest .
The Emperor has something of the technique of and fantastic exaggeration that we associate with Dickens , and something of the manner , too , of Dickens 's reader , Kafka :
In the courtyard where the Emperor s retinue awaited him , there were tens , no , I say it without exaggeration , hundreds eager to push their faces forward .
rubbed against face , the taller ones squelching the shorter ones , the darker ones overshadowing the lighter ones .
despised face , the older ones moving in front of the younger ones , the weaker ones giving way to the stronger ones .
hated face , the common ones clashing with the noble ones , the grasping ones against the weaklings .
It is not easy to know how Kafka 's fictions can be thought to answer descriptively to the historical realities of his time , let alone to those which his fictions are often thought to have predicted .
And it is not easy to know how 's book is a book about a bygone Ethiopia .
Is it a book about Poland ?
From Abyssinia Kapuscinski passed to Persia .
From Rasselas , as it were , to Ozymandias .
Sand is gradually covering the inert machines . ``
At this palace , as at the , servility shows its face and performs its tricks .
Foreign statesmen revere an oil-rich omnipotence : `` Now the whole world was at his feet .
Before him were heads , inclined necks and outstretched hands . ``
Kapuscinski speaks of the liberals who lost out when the was expelled , but is not .
Bani Sadr he does mention , with sympathy .
The suggestion democracy can not be imposed by force has the force of a generalisation .
Kapuscinski is a seeker of general truths who is sparing with his generalisations , and who likes certain kinds of particularity but not others .
But in The Emperor no detail is adduced might bring out what differences there could have been between the courtiers and petitioners of Ethiopia and their counterparts elsewhere in the world .
Kapuscinski 's courtiers and petitioners are about as black as Johnson 's Prince Rasselas , who is about as black as he is white .
In the second book , a photograph is spoken of which `` shows the down of a monument to one of the Shahs ( father or son ) in Teheran or some other Iranian city .
It is hard to be sure about the year the photograph was taken , since the monuments of both Pahlavis were pulled several times , whenever the occasion presented itself to the people . ``
Here the confusions or uncertainties are the point of the passage : it does n't matter that the particulars of the caption are this sort of thing was always happening .
It matters less and less as we move into an enjoyable account derived from a vocational puller-down of statues of the and his father .
The was equal to these demolitions : `` If we pulled one down , he set up three . ``
The wrecker explains that , one way or another , `` it 's not easy to pull down monuments `` .
Kapuscinski then generalises .
The Shah 's regime was a transplant that the system had rejected : `` The rejection of a transplant - once it begins , the process is irreversible .
All it takes is for society to accept the conviction that the imposed form of existence does more harm than good . ``
I am not how much these last words are doing , and if there is tautology here , it is compounded by what follows .
A great experience , an adventure of the heart .
Look at the people who are taking part in a revolt .
They are , , ready to make sacrifices .
At that moment they are living a monothematic world limited to one thought : to attain the goal they are fighting for .
Everything will be subjugated to that goal & hellip ;
Kapuscinski 's way with words entails , piling up , for the space of a slim volume .
All three have international sponsors , and is to find out that the South Africans have invaded in the south of the country , having fallen in love with .
He writes of them as they stay for waftage :
Some crates were as big as vacation cottages , because a hierarchy of crate status had suddenly come into being .
The richer the people , the bigger the crates they erected .
Crates belonging to millionaires were impressive : beamed and with sailcloth , they had solid , elegant walls of the most expensive grades of tropical wood , with the rings and knots cut and like antiques .
The passage takes off thereafter in ecstatic inventory .
At the start of the book there are false notes , those of a Hemingway war correspondent : `` Every knock at the door could mean the end for me .
I tried not to think about it , which is the only thing to do in such a situation . ``
But matters are mended with the arrival of the crates - antiques that epitomised an antique land , brief monuments to the old Angola .
, in the south , is one of 's ghost towns .
A deserted European quarter is twinned with an African settlement out in a desert `` and glimmering like a salt , without a blade of grass `` .
These Africans have not moved into the houses of the Portuguese .
They are passive , we are told ; moral scruples do n't come into it .
Kapuscinski generalises : `` the degree of consciousness that drives one to demand justice or do something about obtaining it has n't yet been reached . ``
From Benguela , Kapuscinski and a film crew to a scene of carnage , guided by Carlotta , a heroine of the .
When the Europeans decide to return , their guide decides to stay , and is immediately killed .
`` We are all culpable in Carlotta 's death , since we agreed to let her stay behind ; we could have ordered her to return . ``
A colonial `` could `` .
Kapuscinski is soon in a still hairier place , further south , he is told of the South African intervention .
This is a scoop , and he fights his way back through wildernesses , road-blocks , threats of ambush , to inform Warsaw .
Independence is declared , and 's position as head of the hard-pressed MPLA improves .
By now is on his `` last legs `` , and he telexes Warsaw to say that he wants to leave and that it is `` more or less clear `` that `` the Angolans will win `` .
's , and Castro 's , Angolans , presumably .
On the following page we read that `` things were going badly `` for .
Since then , for the thirteen years since Kapuscinski 's departure , things have gone badly for the Angolans , and they are still terribly .
But at last , in the summer of 1988 , negotiations are in hand which may end the war .
It is a war which has begun to embarrass the interveners .
According to the Guardian , the New Year 's Honours of 1988 in Britain contained a knighthood for `` Professor Albert Maillard , the Oxford historian `` .
I feel that Albert Maillard , if he existed , would have no time for 's impressionism , for his absence of dates , figures and state papers , and that Albert Maillard would be wrong .
There is history in the accounts gives of the confusions and uncertainties which he has experienced and which he has tried to interpret .
All is not dark in these accounts , and indeed they can be said to gleam with a quality of reflected light .
I think of him as an artist who writes history , and I take it that the history he writes includes the history he has principally suffered - that of Poland .
At the same time , he is a shrewd observer who writes compellingly about the people and the landscapes he encounters .
A benevolent despot .
The same description would not , in my view , be grossly inapplicable to the ruler of Poland - which has , as it happens , a smaller population than the Ethiopia of chronic famine .
General Jaruzelski bears no obvious resemblance to the Third World autocrats in the first two books .
Their writing coincided with the rise of Solidarity .
Heroine of Our Time
SUICIDE was thought damnable in the Middle Ages , and I expect there are those who have been brought to feel by a book The Monument that the Middle Ages had a point .
T. Behrens 's book commemorates a young couple who lived together for seventeen years in a solitude & agrave ; deux and who then took their own lives - incompetently and lingeringly .
Representatives of the few people they had come to know in the course of their wanderings round the world were left to clear up .
Suicide tends now to command sympathy , even when the reasons for it are hard to understand .
Not everyone who reads the book will be able to sympathise with Justin and Ursula , or to believe that they understand them .
But there will also be those who will stay with it for its relish of damnation .
Literary careers can be founded on the impersonation and adulation of privileged behaviour ; but the literary works which have been written and inspired by snobs and sports are by no means all boastful or .
The supreme text of recent years is James Fox 's account of Lord Lucan and his set , with their boffes de politesse .
insolence has quite often appeared to express a perception of the activities of the Labour governments which have come and gone since 1945 .
Behrens 's book , however , pays no attention to politics or to matters .
His story begins at a time when , as at other times in this century , the patriciate , and the merely rich , had slipped down into marked collusion with the smart , with upstarts and bohemians .
The and the well-off have been apt at such times to turn , for diversion and instruction , to foreigners and to members of the working class .
These strangers have been sexual , artistic .
Theirs was the charm of not being bourgeois , and the foreigners among them could be , or could come across as , princes , pretenders to a throne , descendants of a khan .
What survived , in the late Fifties , of the Chelsea set a refugee from Hungary , after the Soviet invasion of that country .
The self-proclaimed `` honesty `` of the wild , well-born stranger was doubted , but her fascination .
She married an art dealer , Kenelm , to be seriously ill , and conducted affairs , one of them on the Metro with her friend 's friend :
Gianni and Ursula leapt just the doors were , but Monique , who was now a few yards behind them and whose movements were hampered anyway by her arthritis , was there as the train moved out .
Ursula and got off at the next station but , having brought their growing mutual admiration to a startling climax wedged solid among the rocking mass of sober commuters .
After a quick tidy-up they took the next back to the Gare de Lyon had only twenty minutes to wait .
Were the other passengers all sober ?
Startling the commuter is a game in which it is best to think so .
Chapter Five opens with the information : `` Ursula and had known my parents for some time , having been introduced originally by a mutual friend .
had then sold my father a pair of eighteenth-century cupboards . ``
And so it was that Ursula met Justin , the writer 's moody brother , and ran away with him .
They were off on their seventeen years of Tristan and .
Justin , who would appear to have lost some of his old charisma , became the straight man of the act - always mending things .
They lived frugally but in style .
They rented a in Rome and built a house in Greece .
They turned nomadic and with the nomads of the Sudan , where they were to consider building a further house and perhaps settling down .
They swam , they talked , they wrote their diaries and stories , and were at ease in a succession of remote and sticky places .
Ursula 's bad back was religiously exposed to unmanageable African horses and lorry .
T. Behrens kept up with the fleeing lovers , at intervals .
He visited them in Egypt , accompanied by a girl he 'd met in a bar , who proved to be a .
His own vicissitudes in love are a feature of the story he tells , as is his attempt to understand his disconcerting brother and to produce reflections on the meaning of it all .
Ursula 's diary is reflective too , but is at its best in its evocations of place - of the nothingness of the desert , especially .
She can , against the odds , be funny : `` Dinkas in the market have long , brass-bound pipes .
One of these smokers wears a T-shirt with the words `` ever ready `` .
He looks less ready than anyone I 've ever seen . ``
One of her sententious entries reads : `` Tactlessness is often taken for sincerity , and sincerity is in turn often taken for a compliment .
Let no one ever be sincere with me - it is a failure of respect , and respect is a thing can never get enough of .
And the only kind of respect worth having is the insincere kind . ``
Another reads : `` Where would we be without that much-maligned virtue , vanity ! ``
These upper-class pens & eacute ; es lighten the load of an odyssey whose ports of call , for all her evocations , are barely distinguishable from one another .
with his maps , the writer is forced into sheer itinerary :
They drove directly south-west into Algeria through Guelma , Bou Saada , , Colomb near the frontier , Tindouf , into Mauritania through Chinguetta , and reached the Atlantic coast at Nouakshott .
Then the coast to St Louis in Senegal .
At Dakar they cut sharply back into Mauritania through Kiffa , then south again to Kayes in Mali .
On to , then eastward into Upper Volta through Bobo and .
But this , too , is upper-class , this recital of exotic place-names - so often the spoor of the doughty , ascetic , astringent traveller who has left his privileges behind .
She is indeed ready to die , and it is a difficulty that Justin may feel that he has to do the same .
In the Sudan she declares : `` My time is up . ``
She is infatuated with a handsome police chief , goes rather grimly to bed with him in the time he can spare from gambling sessions , and then kills herself .
Justin goes back to England for a while , and then , having broken some hearts , arrives in the Sudan to perform his own suicide .
They now lie together in a single lot in a local cemetery .
The headstone is inscribed with the words : `` Ursula and Justin - `` .
`` `` was a word of the Chelsea set for the first person singular , and one might perhaps venture the thought of a pun in the words of the inscription .
`` Most people addicted to romancing are their own heroes `` : when a second person enters the solitude in question , Louisa Stuart 's maxim becomes harder to apply .
But I have the impression that Ursula was very much her own heroine .
Guesses are , and are quoted from interviews he conducted .
A hint of child abuse may seem to be imparted by his account of a Gothic moment which came about during a walk with her father , at nightfall , in a setting of peasants and forests .
Ursula as `` some sort of Hungarian countess `` whose parents were estranged and who was to be estranged from her ominous father .
Blond and beautiful in his leg-ribbons , his high-heeled shoes , `` fitted with the greatest possible exactitude `` , his `` long white tunic `` and `` dark-brown Circassian coat `` .
Byron 's is not the only ghost to be detected here : the cold hearts of his precursors Lovelace and Laclos 's are present in , who has succeeded in attracting a certain princess .
I 'll tell you the whole truth , `` I answered the Princess .
`` I wo n't excuse or explain my conduct .
I do n't love you . ``
The colour from her lips .
`` Leave me alone , `` she said , barely audibly .
I shrugged my shoulders , turned , and walked away .
The shrugger does n't care whether he lives or dies - and the designer duel for himself by this and indifferent man is a form of Russian roulette .
The duel in which Lermontov was soon to die is said to have been , so far as its arrangements went , on the one in the novel : the outcome , however , was perceptibly different .
The book indicates and gambling have been co-ordinate activities : both , we may feel , are poised on a knife-edge between accident and intention .
reports suggestions that Lermontov 's own death ( like 's in another duel a few months before ) may have been murder , a murder planned by court reactionaries .
Outcomes are uncertain , games of chance can be rigged - but this is not what we are conscious of in reading about Ursula .
We read that she intended , in Hamlet 's words , to `` leave betimes `` , and that she did what she intended .
there was a pattern for her in Lermontov 's novel is conceivable : but it ca n't be claimed that it fits her with exactitude , or that it provides an explanation of her conduct .
It is clear enough , none the less , that the hero of that time is like the hero of some other times , including Hamlet 's .
Shakespeare 's play has an arranged duel which miscarries , and which takes a divided , man who has wondered whether or not it might be better to end his life .
Here , too , the uncertainty of a duel utters the uncertainty of internal division .
Not much is made , however , in the book she has become , of the cultural provenance of this belle dame sans merci .
Not that T. Behrens sets up as a psychologist .
To read about her here is like being shown 's or scrapbook - perhaps an underrated pleasure .
It is like an evening in a restaurant - let 's say Olwen 's Club , on page one , a latter-day refuge of the Chelsea set - listening to a story of mutual friends .
And it is a trip in its own right , on the teller 's part .
And it may be that Justin , too , has more to say , from beyond the grave .
Waiting in the wings is a book by him about Ursula , entitled Style , which , according to Graham Greene , who was sent the manuscript , could be edited for publication .
There may be a cult in the making - and one could imagine a film by , whose script-writer , Mark Peploe , was intrigued by J. Behrens in his last days .
Kingsley and the Woman
A RECENT photograph of Kingsley Amis shows him with a cat , which is standing beside his typewriter .
The author 's face wears a witch 's smile of appreciation .
He is clearly familiar with and fond of that cat .
The smile may have come as a surprise to connoisseurs of the pictures of him which have been issued to the world .
You feel at first on a bad day ( there are quite a few ) Patrick might give it one of the kicks that the novelist seems about to direct at his readers .
Then it turns out that Patrick rather likes it after all .
But then it turns out that the lead , his wife Jenny Standish ( n & eacute ; e Bunn ) , unreservedly cherishes their cat .
All this could suggest that Kingsley is n't altogether sold on Patrick Standish .
Readers of can be expected to remember Patrick and Jenny from the past .
The new novel has married the pair and moved them on into the mid-Sixties and from the provinces to London , where Patrick works misgivingly in a fashionable publishing-house .
And there are other reappearances from the earlier novel .
Each of the novels has an alluring Wendy .
Graham McClintoch of `` the indefensible suit `` has returned , and there are commemorative mentions of a this and a that .
I reviewed Take a girl like you when it came out , and took pains to convey how much I enjoyed and admired its incendiariness .
He will touch everyone on the raw `` - while the young would receive it as an account of what they were up to .
But it was clear , and is clearer still in retrospect , on a number of occasions an old decorum had been deferred to , or embraced .
Jenny 's Jack the Lad is addressed by her as `` my lad `` , and she firmly refuses to rush into bed with him .
It seems appropriate that the language of Four Quartets should enter the novel at one point - appropriate , too , of course , that it should be mocked .
So the piece was solicitous in trying to alleviate the shocks by explaining that the novelist himself was shocked .
And I think it was right to argue that the book has its `` strict disclaimers `` and that goodness of heart , chiefly Jenny 's , is defensively displayed amid a welter of misconduct .
The review predicted that `` any eventual mating `` between Patrick and Jenny `` will have something permanently bitter and irresolute about it `` .
`` No wonder we like them `` , said a poem of 's once .
The poem says that women are `` much nicer than men `` .
about women is a way of avoiding the thought of death - and yet women may be the end of you .
No wonder we fear them .
A paranoid reproach is aimed at all females by an Amis-like figure , who then reproaches himself , or is reproached by some other Amis agent detectable in the novel .
At times a golden girl is present in the vicinity of the discussions of the subject that keep happening , and is felt to restore a balance .
The beauty of the earlier prose is , in part , a beauty of grace , the pointing of sentences , elegance and buoyant , intelligent wit .
In Difficulties with girls there are passages which recall lift of the old proud head .
`` In silence , the two almost almost stiffly to each other , behaving rather like two - well , two somethings-or-other , thought Patrick .
Two climatological dendrologists or torturers , pre-eminent in their respective domains but some technical points . ``
The new prose , however , is in general less , more elliptical , even quite taxingly so on occasion , and yet more colloquial too .
There is less style , of the kind known to Villiers de l'Isle Adam .
Excellent use is made of the text of Tom Jones , but it is now less detectable that this is a writer who has done his stint of teaching literature at university level .
The voice of the novelist is heard continually in the speech of his characters .
Patrick is a lord of language , as he was in the previous novel .
But this novel has not just one but two barmen who could also at a pinch be hailed as lords of language .
Even school-teaching Graham , who is meant to be amusingly boring , is good with words , in one of the ways that teachers sometimes are .
And even Jenny , who is meant to be a mistress of plain speech , is allowed , in this comparatively austere book , a quiet felicity of phrase based on the justice of her perceptions .
This is not the first time such considerations have arisen for readers of his fiction .
Readers of The Old Devils have asked : are its Welsh ?
Its characters have been said to sound .
( Northern Jenny Bunn , incidentally , , to me , Welsh . )
There may be a matter of principle here for some of those who wish their authors to be concealed : such authors should not sound like the characters they invent , any more than they should express opinions .
But the raconteurs of the extra-literary world are permitted to shape and turn the speech of the characters in their stories , and to play the pervasive evident author .
And anyone who doubts whether the method can safely be transferred to literature should consult one of 's best novels , Ending up .
There is a sense in which each novel of his is an opinion of his , coextensive with the work itself and rather , as a rule , to read off in summary .
These considerations affect the difficulties which attend Difficulties with girls , and which come to the with the most Amis-sounding of its characters , the lead .
's novels have always been full of opinions , and have , I think , become prone to a marked ambiguity of effect , especially with regard to questions of gender and .
Patrick has plenty to say on such subjects , and he says it in the lordly way which does much to furnish the book with its presiding idiom .
But are we meant to sympathise with what he says ?
Here and elsewhere , the method , for all Amis would hate to hear it , is dialectical .
In the novels I am thinking of he attributes certain ideas to certain characters and utters them in the prevailing manner of the novel , while also submitting them to question within it .
He can appear so doing to have his opinions and to eat them too .
And he can also appear to place the novel in a state of suspension .
If the state was not in his novels from the first , it is there in One Englishman , and in Jake 's Thing .
It is compatible with the canon of artistic detachment , but it can cause controversy .
But a solicitous critic ( has had his share , for all the faces he makes ) could perhaps be counted on to demonstrate that the novelist is sorry that Patrick is sexist .
Take , for example , the Jewish question as it arises in the novel .
Patrick has been hired by an obnoxiously trendy mismated publisher .
He labours scornfully for this Simon Giles , faintly comforted by a corner in Classical studies which has been granted him for reasons to do with the firm 's image .
Between Patrick and Mrs Giles there flows , or gutters , a current of dreary sexual electricity .
He fancies that Simon is Jewish , and that he gives `` a slight hot smell `` .
By then , however , Patrick has been informed , by an office placeman and fuddy-duddy who believes that trendiness has ruined everything , smelly Simon , though he may be obnoxious , is not Jewish .
This is a bad day for Patrick , who had volunteered that Simon was `` one of a certain & hellip ; persuasion `` .
And now he has been put down , to seem anti-Semitic , by a probable anti-Semite .
The encounter could be read establishing that he has been silly , while clearing him of a certain & hellip ; imputation .
But it could also be read very differently .
For some , it may serve as a reminder of the Kingsley who once unambiguously remarked , in the course of a berating of Philip Roth , `` Jewish jokes are not funny `` .
The woman question is treated together with the question .
This is the mid-Sixties , and homosexuals are being released from the closet by a law enacted by Parliament in the novel .
Patrick is far from , though not entirely patient with the relevant practices and pretensions .
This standpoint is gathered up with others in a book which is free with descriptions of creditable and discreditable dealings on the part of those of that persuasion .
Among the few Standish neighbours on the row is Eric , long gone from the closet and to Stevie , a he-man former semi-film-star , whom he eventually stabs .
Eric is represented as sympathetic , and the counsel he imparts to Patrick on the subject of gender might almost have been imparted by Patrick :
You and I are by nature , by our respective natures , males who are irresistibly attracted by a non-male principle .
In your case , straight-forward , women ; in my case not straightforward , not women - but , , except anatomically .
And it 's the clash between and that causes all the trouble .
They 're different from us .
More like children .
when things go wrong .
Making difficulties just so as to be a person .
But when Patrick says that sort of thing to Jenny , he adds that she is an exception to this law of nature .
She is not , as he puts it , `` that sort `` of woman .
Meanwhile the also sympathetic but Grahamly maddening Tim is to move into a on the row , while supposing himself to be to come out of the closet .
A third homosexual on the row ?
What he has to come out with is not initially clear , but it becomes clearer when a taste of gay night-life turns him off , and he trails back to his dull wife .
This could be termed an uncomely version of what happens to Patrick , whose wife discovers that , at long last , she is pregnant .
She is sure that this will settle them for the foreseeable future .
Their relationship is still unresolved , as wise heads had foreseen in 1960 : but their marriage has gained a lease of life .
The woe is in marriage is not all that bad really .
Jenny has urgently advised Tim to return to his dull wife , telling him that her dullness is the `` point `` .
Those who think that Jenny herself is a little dull at times might conclude that Patrick has impaled himself on that point , like one of those Romans whose language he used to teach .
He is to do a lot less swinging .
`` She was going to have him all to herself for at least three years , probably more like five , and a part of him for ever & hellip ; `` .
The novel is no persuasive advertisement for marriage , or for Jews and gays .
But it is n't either to claim it as and sexist .
There is a difficulty with Jenny , of a kind that came with the of the previous novel .
She now knows more , but the iron has not entered her soul .
Amid the ventriloquism she does often manage to speak for herself .
is still soft on her , a sentiment which is likely to strike most of his readers as natural too .
She is entrusted , on one occasion , with what might seem a rudimentary version of one of his own opinions .
Jenny understands him to say that he has had trouble on his travels `` with the Reds `` .
`` Oh , I thought they 'd taken care of them , `` said Jenny .
`` Since that war they had there . ``
`` They have n't , believe me .
Well , not anything you could call a ``
`` No , I suppose that 's where they would tend to hole up . ``
It 's a very funny joke , but it works at the expense of treating her like a child , which is not at all what the usually intends .
It is n't every comic genius who would undertake to send his talent into such painful places .
Both this and the one which it resumes are `` `` books , in the sense that Parliaments are said to be hung .
Any such attempt has to look closely at their chastened but ultimately unchastenable hero , at his hostility , at his stylistic authority and command of the books he belongs to .
The two Patrick books are stations in a progress - what has encouraged us to call Lucky Jim 's turn to the right .
This is a progress which has found its haven in the achievements of Mrs Thatcher , and the Patrick of the Eighties will have to deal with that .
It will be difficult for him to be baleful about the Millennium .
There is a poem by his friend Philip Larkin , entitled `` Letter to a Friend about Girls `` , which was never published during Larkin 's lifetime but was retrieved for the Collected Poems of 1988 .
It is December 1959 , and may therefore have been written at the time that Take a girl like you was being completed .
And it might almost be the work of Graham McClintoch .
This is not , of course , the case .
It may be that Larkin 's poem and the person we meet there participate the ventriloquism of 's novel .
There is a `` barrier `` between the attractive and the unattractive - between , as Graham puts it a later occasion , the `` beggars `` and `` choosers `` of the sexual life .
Convinced of his own plainness , Graham is here in taking Jenny out and making a mess of kissing her .
You ca n't imagine what it 's like not to know what it is to meet an attractive person who 's also attracted to you , can you ?
Because unattractive men do n't want unattractive girls , you see .
They want attractive girls .
They merely get unattractive girls .
I think a lot of people feel vaguely when they see two duffers marrying that the duffers must prefer it that way .
Which is rather like saying that slum-dwellers would rather live in the slums than anywhere else - there they are in the slums , are n't they ?
Larkin 's poem complains in concert ; it takes up the question of what it is to be sexually debarred .
The poem begins :
After comparing lives with you for years
I see how I 've been losing : all the while
I 've met a different gauge of girl from yours .
Grant , and all the rest makes sense as well & hellip ;
As for the different `` sort `` of girl known to the loser :
They have their world , not much compared with yours ,
But where they work , and , and put men
By being unattractive , or too shy ,
Or having morals - anyhow none give in & hellip ;
By now , the reader may be on his way to deciding that this is the better world of the two , and to wondering if the poet is trying to get his own back .
The poem might be thought if it were more believable .
Can this ever have been the trouble with Larkin ?
But then I 'll be told that it 's not about him at all , in that silly sense .
Whether it is or not , the poem can be called distinctive - distinctive both of Larkin and of .
These two worlds , moreover , are like the two worlds of men and women in .
Between men and women , too , there is said to be a barrier .
And there are , in fact , several barriers in his writings : between Jenny and the Reds could be considered another .
In all this sharp distinguishing , in all this enemy thing that has , there are elements of anxiety , and of misrepresentation .
and Larkin are the same but different .
The poem and I have attributed to them respectively can also , for certain purposes , be attributed to them both .
They are pieces of which are distinct in law ; the author of the one could not be sued for the , or for collaborating in it .
Nevertheless a togetherness is apparent , of a kind that characterises colluders - or friends - rather than collaborators .
I have applied the term `` ventriloquism `` , in this book , to the fictions of Peter Ackroyd and Kingsley .
The former is ventriloquial ; the latter gives `` a carnival sense of the world `` , and is the more hopeful .
True art , or the best art , has a dialogic structure , many voices , and so has the good society .
But it is possible to believe that the idea of ventriloquism which lies at the heart of it may be successfully both to some sorts of contemporary author and to some of what went before .
And she notes that the same remark , or the same sentences , can be found in Amis 's novel .
What interests her , apparently , is not the remark itself , but `` the degree to which the piece of `` - her piece of , presumably - `` to affect the novel in any way `` .
The novel was left `` curiously unaffected `` by this discovery .
It is as if the discovery could have no meaning for anyone experiencing the novel - which would certainly be curious .
Soon afterwards , though , she writes : `` I do n't want to suggest that Difficulties with girls and The Waste really have much to do with each other . ``
So the two works are said to be both like one another and unlike .
What they have in common is that each escapes `` the limitations of the personal `` .
Beyond this , the use of biography , its actual ability to throw ( rather than to be entertaining and nice to have around ) , seems to be a fantasy .
Kenner 's fantasy is being discussed in terms of the view - with which Kenner can be expected to be very familiar - that the goals of a biographically-minded criticism are in some fantastic .
`` Beyond this `` , however , leaves indefinite the point at which , or frequency with which , the use of biography deserves to be called by that name .
His novel is art all right .
It has the sui generis of art .
It has art 's power to translate , to abstract from the circumstances in which it originates .
The choice here may in a sense be between knowing more and knowing less .
Should Amis 's friendship with Larkin - which goes unstated in Amis 's fiction , but which is not absent from it - to the reader of that fiction ?
Why should it not , if there are grounds for thinking that it matters to the fiction ?
But the report is worth knowing by those who want to know the poem .
But if this is so , it can be seen to make possible biographical connections of a usable kind .
It connects the two writers , and it connects each one of them with their works .
The two works of theirs which Barbara Everett compares are neither of them an escape from the spacious confines of the personal .
In this respect they are , and like all other works of art .
But in many respects they are very different , and they come from different times : they are separated from one another by three-quarters of a century .
It would take someone who was very much intent on a punishment of biography to think of pointing the way to Difficulties with girls by mentioning its proximity to The Land .
AUTHORSHIP can be called , if anything or anyone can , dual , equivocal .
The works of authors are replicas , and they are unique .
They are and are not autobiographical .
An author is and is not his book .
In the later years of the Eighties a series of events and episodes has served to direct the attention of British readers to the issue of authorship and its autobiographical character or constituent .
The novelist was Philip Roth , no stranger to outcries himself , whose fictions reveal a multiple self which corresponds to the self of Philip Roth .
They can be said to determine and to indetermine , both to record , and to distort and desert , the facts of his life .
He has now told the same story `` `` - or comparatively .
Roth also explains that he was `` educated to believe that the independent reality of the fiction is all there is of importance and that writers should remain in the shadows `` .
As the world knows , Roth grew up in Newark , New Jersey , a second-generation American Jew , and he was to turn into a citizen of the world , a famous author .
In middle age he has experienced a breakdown , an identity crisis , which followed a long illness and an operation .
He felt a need to discover who he was , and to write directly about that , and about his books , to step out of the shadows .
The poor boy , who resembles Philip Roth , tells the story in which he takes part , and does so in a manner that can be considered uncontroversial .
In the fictions that lay ahead , however , the relationship between the author and his characters is subjected to an intense elaboration .
It became , in a sense , the story Roth now had to tell .
A dance ensues in which he and his characters identities .
The poor boy continued to fight with propriety in these fictions .
But now there 's the possibility of a truce .
The Facts shows signs of a wish to be `` reconciled with the tribe `` , and indeed to be a `` nice fellow `` .
At the same time , though less abrasive , the book is only intermittently less sophisticated than those that preceded it .
The `` distrustful fellow `` of the past is present , and not just as a commemorative item .
A Roth is once again in evidence .
Nathan is a persona 's persona : Roth Peter - who begat Nathan - in the novel of 1974 , My Life as a Man .
The Zuckerman books are a medley of differences and affinities between what we are able to infer about Roth 's life and what he has made of it in art .
In propria persona , Roth discourses in The Facts about his relationship with his younger brother , Sandy .
The tone is judicious and kind .
This is a nice .
This was hubris , pure and simple & hellip ;
's relationship with his brother Henry is , in contrast , often sanguinary , as gruesome as their respective operations .
Nathan is a swinger , who is blamed for whoring after and women .
`` Even your shiksas go down the drain when they do n't tickle your fancy anymore . ``
Meanwhile The attributes to Henry the verdict that `` exploiting and family secrets was my brother 's livelihood `` .
The Zuckerman books help one to imagine how Roth has faced the reproach that he has derided his family and sold their secrets .
But perhaps it is not too simple to suggest that we are also conscious of as a deflection of the wrath over Roth which works by making responsible for the outrage .
We are conscious of what does for Roth : when he helps a man to gather his spilt heart pills , it is Roth himself by assigning a small mercy .
This is a state which experiences and which he sends up .
In the fictional conversation about adverse publicity a good mother meets a son anxious to reassure her , while alive to the comedy of it .
`` As long as you know what you 're doing `` , she ventures , adding : `` And as long as you know that it is right . ``
`` I do `` and `` It is `` , replies .
The Facts is the more filial book of the two .
The facts show a good son , one who is less quick to see the jokes .
Shiksas were to promise an escape from Jewish America , the promised land of Israel was eventually to be evoked as doing for Henry .
When Josie dies a car Roth feels relief .
Her death delivers him from the ordeal of divorce , as frequent as funerals are in his books .
At one stage no less a person than Bobby Kennedy , soon to accompany Josie to the grave , had offered to help Roth gain his freedom .
In the liberated world of radical , we may be intended to think , favours could be done for the person .
The Facts says that the `` crack-up `` of 1987 had induced `` fiction fatigue `` , a need to `` demythologise myself and play it straight `` .
Leaving off with the `` imaginative fury `` might make it possible to `` unlock meanings fictionalising has obscured , distended , or even inverted `` .
At the same time , he accepts the `` obvious `` fact that `` facts are never just coming at you but are incorporated by an imagination is formed by your previous experience `` .
It is a work which might well shed a tender light on the novella `` Goodbye , Columbus `` .
's Complaint is a work of the furious imagination spoken of , and rendered debatable , in The Facts .
The Facts is able to treat the historical conditioning of 's Complaint in a way in which the novel itself was not in a position to do .
It has the benefit of hindsight .
But it would also appear to know its own place in history in a way which an exercise of the furious imagination in art can sometimes seem to prevent .
Different genres , different imaginations .
It informs us of the `` forces `` which shaped Roth 's tours de force of the Sixties and early Seventies , and it informs us of how he came to be where he is now .
But perhaps it will come to be thought by his readers that these successive attitudes to the autobiographical , and to , in art are equally valid , equally reversible .
This is a view which would accord with the dualistic tradition to which his novels predominantly belong .
The Facts , among its various dualities , the reminder that the and Philip Roth is like Saul .
supported Roth 's early , and Roth 's work was to bear a resemblance to Bellow 's .
They are two of a kind , it seems to me , authors of a paranoid comedy of the dualistic imagination , while also different .
Roth got to know in Chicago , where Roth worked as a university teacher , finding it a lively place .
It was lively enough to marry to a `` stylish Radcliffe graduate `` of whom Roth had been `` `` - if we are to assume that The Facts has not imagined the connection .
It is a connection not unlike some of those made in the fiction of both authors .
The memoir sets us asking if Philip Roth knows who he is .
He is angry , suspicious , overbearing ; he can be very like the berated in the fiction as `` this unsatisfiable , , quarrelsome novelist `` .
And yet he is nice .
He is tough and he is tender , wrathful and ruthful .
This condition he shares with many others , not all of them writers ; it is a condition we are entitled to call traditional .
And it is a condition which can be recognised in the reception of his work .
His shiksas and replicas , hostilities and , have taken part in a great game of long duration , and he can be said to be reviewing the state of play .
, he thinks , is Jewish .
He knows that it is also dualistic .
The dualistic ambience in literature has long been influential , but has remained controversial , and it is both influential and controversial in these annals of the House of Roth .
's proposal of marriage to Maria in The is an indication of its importance , and of the importance of both for the tradition and for the unsatisfiable Roth .
`` Because I 've decided to give up the artificial fiction of being myself for the genuine , satisfying falseness of being somebody else .
Marry me . ``
Here , it is as if both the single and the accounts of human nature were specious .
In general , though , he has been faithful , in most of what he has written , to a version of the and , mysterious and fugitive self .
At the end of The there is a letter from Nathan to Maria on this subject which has the force of a statement of allegiance on the part of Philip Roth .
There can be no that this is what Roth really thinks : the affidavit that might have been contained in The Facts has been withheld .
It may be that he really thinks there is nothing that he really thinks .
But if Roth dissents from the statement , then imagining how he came to write most of his books becomes a problem .
tells his Maria :
Being is one long performance and the very opposite of what is thought of as being oneself .
So in are they that they do n't even recognise that being in is the act .
For certain self-aware people , however , this is not possible : to imagine themselves being themselves , living their own real , authentic , or genuine life , has for them all the aspects of a hallucination .
I realise what I am describing , people divided in themselves , is said to characterise mental illness , and is the absolute opposite of our idea of emotional integration .
The whole Western idea of mental health runs precisely the opposite direction : what is desirable is congruity between your self-consciousness and your natural being .
He goes on to say to Maria that
it 's all impersonation - in the absence of a self , one impersonates selves , and after a while impersonates best the self that best gets one .
All I can tell you with certainty is that I , for , have no self , and that I am unwilling or unable to perpetrate upon myself the joke of a self .
But Roth must know that it is likely to be no joke to those who are reading his book .
says here that performance is all there is , that person and persona are .
This is a self which there may be `` no way of `` .
It is a self which is , for philosophers , to prove .
But it is a self which readers of the book can only rarely have found it hard to experience .
The novelist to himself once as `` amorphous Roth `` .
`` Polymorphous Roth `` might be nearer the mark .
I think that many of his readers would be prepared to bear to the sense that somewhere in there among the changing shapes is the usual nonpareil .
There is more than one Roth .
And in what Roth writes Roth and Bellow .
But neither of them is incapable of pursuing the artificial fiction of being himself .
No one would lightly believe that either of them has ever found it hard to tell the difference between himself and somebody else .
Dualistic explanations are moving , and intriguing : but they are often thought , even by proponents , to be far-fetched , fictional , theoretical , counter-intuitive .
The tradition gives many convincing pictures of the inwardness and invasiveness of friends and rivals .
Brothers may be rivals , and they may be internalised .
Roth 's fiction internalises the brother identified in The Facts .
Nathan enters Henry and Henry enters Nathan .
Maria bursts into italics ( and out of character ) to say to Nathan : `` You are your brother ! ``
And Nathan says to Henry : `` We are all each other 's authors . ``
A universal fellowship obtains .
The definition of personality which is harboured in such procedures has moved and several generations of writers .
This fury can look like an onanistic or a solipsistic fury .
that to your mother !
It goes without saying that the definition has been responsible for a major literature .
But about many of its manifestations there can be something ominous - something that is acutely understood and eloquently exposed in The .
This is a generic something : I am speaking here of a literary practice and widely and variously undertaken , in relation to which Roth is both critic and .
The caveats expressed in The apply to all occasions when , in whatever genre or style , autobiography imposes itself upon , overwrites , the world .
And it has evolved in contrast with character - , earlier product of the literary imagination - and with purpose and achievement .
This is a knowledge which has been impugned in literature , and which has deteriorated there .
Roth 's turn towards fact - admittedly , an imagined and far from indisputable fact - will appear to some to signal a turn towards the self and towards the outside world .
Such a reading could well be found to have attributed too much to a recoil , a respite , a provisional position .
He is unlikely to have lost his distrust of the self ; and he is likely ( and ) to resume his furious fictions .
THE writer Primo Levi died on 11 April 1987 , to the dismay of his readers .
There was a time when it must have seemed to many of them that he would never receive a bad review , or even a word .
`` Reading Primo Levi `` is in some respects a strong essay .
So what is with Levi and his Levi-like writings ?
It is made to seem that he was a stranger , a gentleman , a `` watcher from the sidelines `` .
He was `` cursed with a tin ear for religion `` .
He could not get on with the believing Jews from Eastern Europe whose religion and traditions he neither shared nor understood .
As a result , there are `` no Jews as such `` in his Auschwitz book .
But many Jews are not believers , and are still , for most people , including themselves , palpably Jewish .
He also had , the article conveys , a tin ear for the ordinary man .
He is like the poet , alas - Age abstainer from the world and connoisseur of oysters .
Literary criticism is doing here what it often does : it has gone for the faults and , so doing , inverted the truth .
When is a Jew not a Jew ?
When he does not accept the religion in the Old Testament .
It is not the case that all her objections are .
But their accumulation is very far from the complicated truth .
By these standards , Levi would appear to be an imperfect Jew , and this could well be an opinion that underlies the talk about his later books being not nearly as good as his earlier ones .
Here is an assimilated Jew , a Diaspora Jew , unsound on Zion .
Among the references to Israel in Levi 's writings is one which is , from a Zionist point of view , tin-eared .
The reference occurs in The Drowned and the Saved , of which a translation was published in 1988 , on the anniversary of his death .
There are those for whom it is not Jewish to speak this way about Israel .
It is odd to speak of the creation of a state as the `` pretext `` for anything : the translator may possibly be responsible for the oddity here , as for the orotundity that precedes it .
But the passage certainly suggests that there was a distance between Levi 's view of Israel and the views Commentary chooses to publish .
Arabs who had been expelled from their land and into the condition of Jewish refugees are hereby reformulated as imperialist aggressors and as Nazis .
The magazine 's line on such matters would also appear to be remote from , and distinctly harder than , that taken in its dying days by the Reagan Administration .
George Schultz travelled to the Middle East in the summer of 1988 to spread the word that `` the continued occupation of the West Bank and Gaza and the frustration of Palestinian rights is a dead-end street .
The belief that this can continue is an illusion . ``
It is a measure of the grim recalcitrance of the region 's problems that Schultz 's message was reported to have been saluted by a strike called in protest among the Palestinians of the occupied territories .
Meanwhile Fernanda Eberstadt has been practising as an expert on captivity and , and on the beliefs for later generations by the children of Israel .
She has written in the same magazine ( June 1987 ) on the Book of Exodus , that a reading of the Bible literature , rather than as sacred text , `` can not lift heavenward `` .
In the article on his work which appeared in 1985 Levi is at one point with reference to .
She takes exception to a story of his about a Jewish , an inhabitant of the camps , who fasts there on Yom Kippur .
She observes that the prisoner is following a prohibition down in the Old Testament , but that a rabbinical ruling had allowed Jews to eat in the camps on Yom Kippur in order to stay alive .
It is not clear why this is a reproach to Levi , whose story concerns a man whose piety is idiosyncratic , especially severe .
Two years after this , in February 1987 , she praised a Gulag memoir by Gustav Herling .
A World Apart is a `` truly golden `` work , despite the presence in it , apparently , of a foul anti-Semitism .
Herling is thought to resemble Dostoevsky , whose Prototypical prison book , The House of the Dead , has in it a mansion tenanted by obnoxious , Jews .
A World Apart is , `` despite `` its author 's socialism , a `` deeply religious book `` , in which she has at times the sense of `` a man talking to God `` .
She displays more sympathy for this anti-Semitic Moses , for this religious man who is against Jews and against the Soviet system , than she does for Jews who are not religious .
Whether or not she has talked to God , she has certainly been reviewing for him .
Levi , the expert on metals , would have had no difficulty in telling the difference between gold and tin .
I have heard that he was saddened by these writings of Fernanda Eberstadt 's , in which his own writings are faulted .
He was 68 years old .
I have in fact no explanation to offer as to how he came to die , and it may be that no trustworthy explanation will ever be achieved .
Levi was an author who , without detriment to the other people who figure his books , wrote all the time about himself , both in autobiographical and in fictional form .
In Moments of he remarks : `` What the `` true `` image of each of us may be in the end is a meaningless question . ``
In The Periodic Table he mentions a woman `` dear to my heart `` who was murdered at Auschwitz : but the book on Auschwitz does not discuss his relationship with her .
These omissions and transpositions indicate that Levi could well have kept to himself any plan he may have formed to end his life .
Levi had a high opinion of the grain of mustard , and of salt .
Fascism did not like these substances .
He associated the grain of mustard with his own activities , with Roth 's , with Jews generally , with the awkwardness and tartness and wholesomeness of idiosyncrasy and .
It was , or could be called , an impurity .
It was the taste of the stranger - who might at the same time be rooted , as he himself was , in some national life .
These words of his , in The Periodic Table , refer to some words of the past .
`` I felt like Coleridge 's Ancient Mariner , who waylays on the street the wedding guests going to the feast , inflicting on them the story of his misfortune . ``
He beg an work as a chemist in a paint factory .
Then came the meeting with the woman whom he was to marry , a meeting about which he writes in the same book .
These remarks concerning If this is a man do not describe the kind of book which runs easily to sequels , and which is easy to live up to .
Nor do they describe the sort of thing we are supposed to like very much .
`` With his left hand he snatched the gun from the Pole 's hands , and with his right he gave him a violent blow to the ear . ``
Roth says to Levi in the course of the interview embodied in his article : `` Your other books are perhaps less `` imaginary `` as to subject-matter but strike me as more imaginative in technique .
The motive behind If not now , when ? seems more narrowly tendentious - and consequently less liberating to the writer - than the impulse that generates the autobiographical works . ``
Levi explains that he had amused himself by writing a `` Western `` and that he had wanted to write a hopeful book .
I wished to assault a commonplace prevailing in Italy : a Jew is a mild person , a scholar ( religious or profane ) , unwarlike , , who tolerated centuries of persecution without ever fighting back .
It seemed to me a duty to pay homage to those Jews who , in desperate conditions , had found the courage and the skill to resist .
I cherished the ambition to be the first ( perhaps the only ) writer to describe the world .
Levi 's intention does not mean that there is no autobiography in the book .
The wish to evoke a Jewish resistance to Nazism relates to a history which comprehends his own writings and example .
And in the portrayal of the mechanic there is a portrayal of Levi .
Let us praise , more than we do , and as we can here , the literal writer .
But there is no doing so unless we accept that the literal writer has an imagination .
Levi can sometimes appear incapable of fiction , but it is no less apparent that everything he wrote was fiction .
He was well-aware of the sense in which he made up what happened to him , imagined his misfortune .
Levi would have understood , just as I think he would have been happy to agree that it is possible to speak without contradiction of the literal imagination .
's art is imaginative , figurative .
It has been said , by Dan Jacobson , that he `` aestheticises `` his response to violence .
This tendency has no counterpart in Levi , and it may be doubtful whether it could live with the subject-matter of the camps .
's bad times could be turned into art - an art which has been seen to release him , as it were , from his subject , and which has also been seen to hesitate .
He felt imprisoned by his religious upbringing in Odessa , and was to remember `` the rotted Talmuds of my childhood `` .
And he was drawn to the grace and violence to be found among his Cossacks .
To such scenes his narrator is introduced by the shopkeeper , believer in a peaceful Revolution .
Levi 's and Babel 's Gadali are faces of the Central European Jew in times of crisis .
Action , power , are thought to be contrasted , in Babel 's stories , with , devotion , resignation , - those Jewish things .
His ambivalence is a bespectacled look at the long legs of the divisional commander , which were `` like girls sheathed to the neck in riding-boots `` .
The image - summoned by a narrator whose exhausted dreams are filled with girls - is like nothing we would ever meet in the literal Levi .
But the literal Levi is a writer who has his own way of himself in the contrasts which have been attributed to Babel .
Levi was interested in action , purpose , , and capable of them : and the capacity may have been formed in contention with a desire to withdraw and perhaps to give up .
I think myself that this was the case , and that it scarcely makes him very different from many other hard-working people .
The desire can be surmised , without recourse to hindsight , in some of what he wrote , but is far from being the point of what he wrote .
is the supreme subject in Levi .
`` We can and must fight to see that the fruit of labour remains in the hands of those who work , and does not turn into punishment . ``
`` Perhaps the most accessible form of freedom , the most subjectively , and the most useful to human society , consists of being good at your job & hellip ; `` .
These statements are from The , is good at his job and Levi is good at getting this across .
There can be no doubt that he had an ear for what such people have to say for themselves .
talks about `` the way we bent our elbows `` - an expression ( for or ) which I have heard spoken in , but which I had never before seen written down in a book .
I have heard that before too , but not from any writer .
A builder friend of mine once talked to me about mistakes made by builders .
These mistakes - whereas `` in the arts it does n't matter if you foul up . ``
Levi 's double life chemist and writer suggests that if art and to be separated , according to a certain sense of what it is to be a Jew , art and are nevertheless very often the same .
The categorical difference of the modern world , between artists and others , does not come well out of his reports .
His chemistry is intriguing from this point of view .
Here was a second double life - that of a scientist who was also an artist , a chemist who was also an alchemist , a businessman who was also a magician .
He was as keen as mustard , and as Doctor Faustus .
The Periodic Table reveals that the ancient magic of transmutation and alembics persisted in Levi 's laboratory .
The book has fumes , stinks , and fiascos .
There is more than a hint of the search for the philosopher 's stone .
Levi 's paints actually manage to come to life as human beings in The , a less fanciful book which nevertheless claims that `` paints resemble us more than they do bricks .
The work that Levi is of an order to which Auschwitz - with the motto its gates , Arbeit frei - was built to be antithetical .
In the camps , was imposed on the prisoners with the aim of exploiting and of destroying them .
It bore a hideous resemblance to the blighting , sorts of work which are common in the world at large .
And yet there was a work of survival to be attempted in the camps .
But most of those who stayed alive were `` prominents `` , or Kapos , prisoners who were placed in authority , or members of the Special Squads who assisted with the killings .
One of the late pieces in The Drowned and the Saved casts this work of survival : `` the worst `` , he writes .
The friend felt Levi had survived `` so that I could bear witness `` .
The book is no sequel to If this is a man , but its explications are never without interest .
`` In the Lager , colds and influenza were unknown , but one died , at times suddenly , from illnesses that the doctors never had an opportunity to study .
Gastric ulcers and mental illnesses were healed ( or became asymptomatic ) but everyone from an unceasing discomfort polluted sleep and was nameless . ``
There is a chapter which discusses the letters from Germans - `` good Germans `` in the - which were sent to him in response to his book about the camps .
An eager woman appealed to him with the story of her cleaning woman , who had proved herself at fault .
The husband of the cleaning woman had been a soldier , and she had said that he had had no choice but to obey his orders to shoot Jews .
The correspondent explained : `` I discharged her , stifling the temptation to congratulate her her poor husband fallen in the war . ``
There is a `` Middle Eastern `` recalcitrance here .
The chapter exposes a factor of complicity , and regards it , one might think , as a German invention .
He never forgave the Nazis ; they were always his enemies .
This was not , however , `` personal `` .
He is among the least ego-bound of book-writers , the least ego-bound of autobiographers , at all times able to look beyond himself and his community .
Two occasions in the book about his partisans quietly illustrate what he is for his readers in this respect .
In the book Line has been Leonid 's woman , and has gone with Mendel .
By then a `` desperate man `` , Leonid is sent such on a desperate mission , and is killed .
Who can be said to have killed him ?
tells Line : `` The two of us . ``
Not long afterwards , his attention fixed on the sufferings of those Poles who had caused their Jews to suffer , Mendel falls silent , : `` Not us . ``
For Fernanda Eberstadt , Mendel is `` a worrier afflicted with an ability to see his enemy 's side of the question `` .
Those she does n't like are `` cursed `` or `` `` .
There 's religion in that .
Levi 's statement to Philip Roth If not now , when ? did not mention Babel , but it did mention another Isaac - the writer , Bashevis Singer .
is a writer of in the matter of when , in what he sees as the `` disappointing `` modern world , a Jew is not a Jew .
Modern Jews , he affirms , are greedy creatures , tormented by their too many opinions .
It could well be asked if his is an Orthodox fiction .
Is it that of a vicarious believer , if such a person is possible ?
Is he an aesthete of the subject ?
Everything he writes is Jewish in the sense that everything he writes is conscious of the Jewish faith , if that can be said without relinquishing the thought that there are such persons as unbelieving Jews .
But there is some instability in the accounts he gives of dark professions of faith , in his acerbities and fatalities .
In one of the new stories a `` recluse `` , formerly a womaniser , says : `` One away from God and one is already in the dominion of Satan and hell .
You do n't believe me , eh ? ``
Do we believe him ?
Is this some Jewish joke ?
can , after all , be very funny .
His religion is as much as anything the regression to a past of obedience , disobedience , and doom .
Such things are celebrated in his stories with a richness and unction which might appear to make a renegade of Babel and certainly of Levi .
Singer 's religion is also a feeling for the power of the community to censure and reject .
This power is apparent in the story of his sorcerer .
It is a story in which the case of Primo Levi , that of a , gifted , magical , mustardly Jew , might at moments be thought to be implicated .
But then so might that of the writer of the story , who may be less obedient than the reader immediately recognises .
The story celebrates both the sorcerer and his rejection .
We mourn his fall .
`` In the morning they found him dead , face down on a bare spot , not far from the town .
His head was buried in the sand , hands and feet spread out , as if he had fallen from a great height . ``
STUDYING the West Coast of Scotland from the yacht Britannia , the Queen is said to have remarked , not long ago , that the people there did n't seem to have much of a life .
James Kelman 's stories make clear what life is like in Glasgow , and what James Kelman 's life is like .
They are not going to change the royal mind .
This is the queen who was greeted , on a visit to a Scottish university , by the sight of a student emptying down his throat , at top speed , the contents of a bottle of alcohol .
One of 's stories , `` for Breakfast `` , the last in the collection of that name which appeared in 1987 , is , to my mind , a masterpiece .
It 's about a fellow called Ronnie , who is on the dole .
His son has gone off to London , and he worries that he may lose with him .
He has dumped the notes for a greyhound , has given his heart to the beast , and is for this by his friends in the pub .
He takes it for a walk - such walks have long been a ritual activity of the country 's more optimistic poor , the dog more expensively than the chap .
`` It stopped for a piss .
Ronnie could have done with himself but he would have got arrested . ``
The story is wonderfully funny and depressing .
Ronnie , I think , could be held to be a precursor of P for Patrick Doyle in Kelman 's novel of 1989 , A Disaffection .
Both works a possible return , on what might look like a bleak diminuendo but is really an anxiety .
There are important differences , though .
stands much closer to the new hero , and more is made of what happens in that hero 's head .
The new book is funny and depressing at considerable length , and there are moments when a wee terror comes of its expanded universe .
It 's almost all Doyle .
If this is a problem , however , it is the shares with many of the novels we now read .
A Disaffection shares in that uncertainty , and so doing acknowledges a connection with a certain whether-or-not that we meet with in the plays of Shakespeare .
Doyle - `` Patrick `` to his author - is of the fantastic-depressive , angry-and-otherwise Scots-Irish clan .
This Glasgow Hamlet is the latest in a long line of impersonations , and his soliloquies are the novel he inhabits , or most of it .
Doyle 's greyhound is a pair of electricians ' pipes , which he lights upon , and , producing a doleful sound that soothes him - it is like mumbling your mantra or telling your beads .
He needs soothing .
He has passed into crisis .
He is lonely .
His aged parents bore him ( `` Are all parents ? `` ) .
With Doyle it 's `` fucking `` this and `` fucking `` that and the system this and the system that .
He is against `` `` , with its aristocratic capitalists , its MI5 and its MI6 .
Society is a stench .
Shite is everywhere .
He is a schlemiel of the subject .
In such a setting , he believes , his work as a teacher can only be betrayed .
His work as a teacher does n't involve much in the way of .
Homework is a thing of the past .
His classes are soliloquies and Socratic in which his interest in Classical Antiquity , in Pythagoras and , and in H & ouml ; lderlin , Hegel and Marx , and in James Hogg , is imparted to the young ones .
He is the sort of Sixties dominie who used to inveigh in class against the system .
His relationship with the kids is between equals , but they also seem to expect him to be a wise man , and this is what he sometimes expects of himself .
makes Doyle charming , and it is impossible to read the book without gaining the sense of a fully-developed authorial fellow-feeling .
Not that Doyle is n't and maddening too .
His consciousness delivers paranoid images of aggression and hostility .
He is against racism and sexism , but is capable of reflecting : `` He was in love with Alison Houston .
And he wanted to grab a hold of her . ``
On the way , he is chased , or fancies he is chased , by Police who hate him .
Doyle 's state of mind virtually without or critique .
The Queen will certainly need a glossary , but even then she may well be uncertain as to just how much Kelman likes his unlikely lad .
This kind of thing has been said about Hamlet , to whom , as I say , alludes , and more than alludes .
At one point , `` all he sought was death `` ; and the next paragraph has him to be `` out of the road of trouble and strife and all things rotten and putrefied and shitey `` .
Later he reproves himself for an impulse to be rude to a `` good auld guy `` encountered during his search for a bus , and we think of the prating `` good old man `` Polonius .
And on the facing page he breathes some more of Shakespeare 's words : `` To return to Gavin 's or not .
Whether it is nobler . ``
Whether he is sober enough to go back and fetch his dilapidated car , or should , is the question here , or at any rate part of it .
kills his good old guy , as it happens .
He makes mistakes and causes havoc , in pursuit of the course .
So does Doyle .
Patrick said : Do you know what I tell parents Arthur ?
I tell them to go and fuck themselves .
Arthur stared at him .
Know what I mean , I 'm just being honest with ye .
I do nt think ye should expect the teacher to do everything .
If you want your weans to get homework then give it to them your tucking self .
Gavin said : actually sounds quite right-wing ye know .
Well it 's meant to be the fucking and it is the fucking opposite .
Gavin gazed at him , then laughed briefly .
He looked at Pat but Pat looked away .
Nor was Pat going to say anything further because he was fucking home as soon as he swallowed what he had .
There was no point sitting here yapping to a bunch of prejudiced right-wing bastards .
And Gavin turned on him once more : What d ' you mean ye deny ye get long holidays ?
I deny I get long holidays , that 's what I mean .
Back it up .
What d ' you mean back it up ?
Show me what you 're talking about ?
You show me what you 're talking about .
I think I know what Paddy means , said Davie .
Good , tell me , replied Gavin .
I think I know what you mean .
Ye do nt think ye get long holidays because when you 're off from the school you 're still doing other things connected with it , making up timetables and all that .
This , as he recognises , is a form of .
Throughout , Patrick is both the `` King of the World `` that he wants to be - Glasgow belongs to him - and an abject sinner .
The rage of the novel 's males can sometimes be made to appear the rage of those who believe themselves permanently and .
The women are the vessels of a better spirit ; the injury to them is greater , and it is their own men who are responsible for some of that injury .
Patrick and scorns in proportion to his frustration : Hamlet 's `` weakness `` has its counterpart here .
`` Patrick couldni find a pen .
It is most odd indeed how objects disappear rooms wherein the only moveable entity is oneself . ``
( He slides into English here for a laugh . )
Objects disappear , and for a man of 29 he seems to have grabbed hold of very little of anything except a glass and a book .
figures in the novel , precisely rendered scenes , as a bastion of the culture which is also a slow death .
And yet this man is very far from useless .
What we are reading is the Book of Patrick Doyle .
Whether or not it can be seen as Kelman 's self-portrait , it is the portrait of an artist .
These influences , however , would appear to have receded , or to have been digested .
The speech of Glasgow people is the big thing in the novel .
This is a good Scots which is at once distinctly literary and faithful to the speech of the city .
The deferred `` but `` as in `` There again but `` is a particular pleasure .
There are many such verbatim effects , and indeed the dimension of the novel is very important .
This can be reckoned to contain the succession of anecdotes that occurs and the fine detail of working-class life is provided .
Doyle , for instance , thinks to himself a Scottish thought : `` Would his grandparents ever have had sexual activity in the parlour ? ``
Elsewhere , `` he put a teaspoonful-and-a-half of coffee granules into his mug and exactly the same into hers . ``
The measure expresses a mean between and lashing-out , and it has remained a feature of my own Scots-Irish domestic economy which I would bet is widespread in northern parts .
There is good Scots , too , in The Book of Sandy Stewart , which contrasts poignantly with the Book of Patrick Doyle .
Stewart is a traveller , one of the people of the road - among them , , pipers and folk-singers - in whom an oral culture has survived to the present day .
Here , too , there is an antiquity to be aware of .
The book is a succession of anecdotes carefully transcribed in fidelity to his broad Scots , and largely concerned with the long-since of his early days .
A story that would appeal to concerns some killer donkeys .
One of these creatures once slew a butler whose toff gear had proved a red rag - quite a smack , this , at the system .
This gentleman the donkey fae MacGreigor - it was afore my day though - an it wes two or three days in the field at the front door .
This day the butler went tae gie it a piece an it tore him doon wae its feets an mooth .
They say that it wes the different claes that done it - the way the butler dressed - an it hed looked at the claes an a bad wey o the claes .
It hed run intae him an tore him at yinst .
An they say the butler wes gaithert up intae a white sheet the field .
's work forms part of a flowering of talent which has come about in the urban Scotland of the last few years .
These books and plays and films reveal a humanity which surmounts , as has been said , the hardship and brutality they describe - surmounts it , as a rule , by laughing at it .
The Glasgow they evoke is a very and a very lively place .
And yet Stewart 's small wandering world could well be thought the richer of the two environments .
He seldom responds to matters of personality , or individual psychology , is hardly ever in the least `` inward `` ; much depends on the turn of the tale .
They are tales , moreover , which do n't do all that much to summon the nostalgic reader .
They do n't direct us to the late survival of a gypsy paradise .
Nevertheless , they contain persuasive evidence to indicate that there was more for his people to do , and about , that there was more fun , than there is now in some parts of urban Scotland .
Those under threat in the cities have not always been so lucky .
But then the travellers , too , may not have been quite as lucky as Stewart , in his old age , can sometimes suggest .
I remember these nomads myself , from a long while ago in Scotland .
I remember , solemn and suspicious looks , a family was tea in the back-garden of a house in the country .
I peered at them the end of the house .
They could not be let into it , but there was a duty to entertain them , and , as I was told , not to stare .
They were like spirits , and I loved them .
So you want to be an Actor ?
Clearly , there is a difference in scale and dimension between the stage , the television screen and the cinema screen , which changes in direction and in technique .
One of the things you will notice when watching the television is that close-ups are used very effectively , and so it is of vital importance that the actor has absolute control his/her face and expression .
You should also look at the ways in which the physical movements of the actor are organised to suit the restraints of the small screen .
When we turn to the theatre the question of scale is also significant .
The theatre is `` larger than life `` , not in terms of physical scale , but because movements and speech are comparatively emphatic and intense , even when a play simulates everyday natural surroundings .
Some people find this makes theatre less `` believable `` - less true to their own experience and therefore less convincing than the more restrained performances seen on television and cinema .
As part of the audience you are as much a part of the entertainment as the performance itself , and this is something that dramatists are aware of and have always written for .
It is also used as a dramatic device by many contemporary playwrights .
The film is a very distinct dramatic medium .
As you become interested in film acting it is likely that you will also become interested in film , for the actor 's work depends so much on the technical decisions of the director and editor .
So , what can you learn from looking so closely at the actor on stage , TV and cinema ?
In the first you will start to think about how an actor 's work differs according to the demands of the medium .
And you will become aware of technical skills - noticing economy of effect and style , seeing and how an actor interprets a script , and how his thinking comes across in a performance .
Of course , if an actor is doing his/her work well , you will have to work really to notice all these things - for the effect will be seamless .
It 's very important that you read widely , both novels and playscripts , and do n't just confine yourself to an exam syllabus .
After all , an actor 's life is spent working with words , and it will be valuable for you to have a reasonable background in the English literary and dramatic traditions .
is an essential part of your career preparation - the more you read the more you will understand of the theatre 's development .
Academic study of drama such is not necessarily useful for the actor , but an awareness of playwrights and their various styles is of practical value .
A play is primary a piece of action and although a script contains some scenic and character description , the essential interest in the dialogue and the action arising from it .
A really demands to be read aloud -it needs the sound of the voice to bring it alive .
It takes imagination and a lot of practice to read a play to yourself in the same time as it would take to see it on the stage .
Here is a suggested first reading list , which I 've put together to provide a broadly representative selection of significant periods in the theatre 's development .
You should try to read as much as you can of the great Elizabethan and Jacobean dramatists ; Shakespeare , Marlowe and Ben Jonson , Beaumont and Fletcher , , Webster , Middleton .
Marlowe 's Dr Faustus and Ben Jonson 's and The Alchemist are frequently revived .
You might well enjoy Beaumont and Fletcher 's rumbustious The Knight of the Burning Pestle - The Maid 's Tragedy is a good choice , too .
The Jacobean dramatists a world of passion and violence `` vividly theatrical .
Two of the best to read from this period are 's The 's Tragedy , and Webster 's The White Devil .
Perhaps the most `` modern `` of the Restoration writers is George Farquhar ; period artifice is not so obtrusive in his plays , the best known of which are The Recruiting Officer and The Beaux Stratagem .
Have a look at these .
The nineteenth century was , by and large , an unexciting time for theatre writing , until the end of the century when Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw make their entry .
Arnold Wesker 's famous trilogy of plays Soup with Barley , Roots and I 'm Talking About Jerusalem was also performed at the Royal Court .
You should be aware of this period and I recommend reading all four plays and also The Theatre of George Devine by Irving Wardle .
Two of the most outstanding of recent playwrights are David Hare and Tom Stoppard , and I have included extracts from their work in the audition piece selections , p 31 .
I recommend that you read Hare 's trilogy The History , which include Knuckle , Licking Hitler and Plenty - and perhaps his earlier play Teeth 'n ' Smiles .
's most popular play is probably Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead , and he has had notable success with Jumpers , Travesties , and , more recently , The Real Thing .
Two other contemporary writers whose work was first performed by the Stage Company are Nigel Williams , author of n ' and Paul Kember , author of Not Quite Jerusalem ( which has recently been filmed ) .
It 's worth reading these two plays .
And you should also read Steven Berkoff , a high stylist and writer of abrasive poetic theatre , who stands quite alone .
Look at East , and Decadence .
I have n't yet mentioned the development of the Theatre of the Absurd , which has been a strong force in European drama Alfred Jarry 's Ubu Roi was first performed in 1896 .
Read , and you can see the connections with Samuel Beckett 's for , and Ionesco 's The Chairs and The Bald Prima Donna .
Martin Esslin 's book The Theatre of the Absurd is a very valuable background on this subject .
Of the British playwrights , Pinter is often thought to be on the edges of `` absurdism `` and you could also read N.F. Simpson 's One Way Pendulum and Cresta .
All of these recommendations , however , are only to give you a first taste of the scope of theatrical writing .
You should read as much as you can of and American drama , both historical and contemporary , for by doing so you will certainly set yourself up well for both drama school training and your subsequent career .
One of the questions you may be asking yourself is `` Can I be taught to act ? ``
This is something everyone wonders when starting out , even if they are not intending to make a out of acting .
The answer is , of course , no .
No-one can actually teach anyone to act .
That has something to do with the indefinable thing called talent .
You either have it or you do not - talent is certainly not something which can be taught .
But talent can be developed and and provide a sound basis for you to give of the best there is inside you .
So at this moment it 's as well to look at your experience and see how you can help yourself to extend it , before applying to audition at a drama school .
Your local society is always a good beginning .
So what else can you do ?
In recent years the actor has had more opportunity for classes in theatre , including voice and movement training as well as performance and directing skills .
These facilities differ all parts of the world , but in Britain the evening class is probably the most accessible form of training .
London is obviously where most of the opportunities abound .
Notable here are the courses offered during both day and evening by the City Literary Institute .
Classes at the `` City Lit `` , as it is affectionately known , are handled by a highly competent team of tutors , many of whom teach at the drama schools too .
There are classes in movement , , acting and improvisation , as well as more areas like mime , clowning , and playwriting .
The classes are on certain days of the week only , but enrolment is not expensive given that a term is structured the usual academic year .
The term can be approximately twelve to thirteen weeks long , and advanced classes will in all probability do a production over that time which will be and in the Institute 's own theatre .
Such an exercise might even spread over two or three terms .
What should you do if you do n't live in London , and find that it is financially difficult to pay for such courses ?
Once again , the Regional Arts Association will know the leading companies in your area , and this should certainly help you in looking for the kind of group to which you are best suited .
The British Theatre Association , in the first edition of this book , has for decades professional and all-embracing training courses for actors , directors , and young people .
It is currently , in 1990 , fighting for its life .
Due to lack of governmental or any other this unique and valuable organisation has had to suspend its training activities temporarily , whilst trying to secure for itself a sound and permanent financial basis for the future .
It is hoped that courses on a limited basis may restart in the Autumn of 1990 .
Meanwhile , the BTA is still the custodian of the finest theatre library in Europe .
It would be a tragic loss to theatre if such an important organisation were to go to the wall .
It 's been the cradle and help of many actors , directors and playwrights .
The summer schools or workshops offered by the drama schools last approximately five weeks , and give a clear idea of what full-time drama training involves .
The workshops run from 9.30 a.m. to 5.00 p.m .
( Monday to Friday ) , giving a taste of the kind of stamina that will ultimately be required a much longer period .
( At drama the full-time course will frequently require the student to work 9 p.m. and later when productions are being mounted . )
You may find yourself doing quite a bit of `` line learning `` .
The daily schedule can be something like this :
Voice/Speech class students try out their own interpretations
of classes for the day
The five weeks is to provide a fairly comprehensive picture of actor training though even so it can only provide an outline of classes at drama school .
There is not much time for academic work , though some courses include lectures on theatre history .
Some of the courses include a limited number of visits to the theatre , and discussion of these productions will be included in the schedule .
But and all that it means is very much a doing thing , so the emphasis is always on practical work .
Anyone can participate in summer schools , no auditions are , only completion of an application .
But often students attending do have previous experience , either in the theatre `` or in university or school productions .
On the whole there is no real age , and the level of experience can be very mixed .
In some cases students wishing to take an open audition for the full-time course may do so without paying the usual audition fee .
For details about applying to summer schools , see Appendix C on p 134 .
Going to drama school
Vocational training for the actor as we know it has only existed in England for the last eighty years .
The starting point was the formation by Sir Herbert Tree of a training school at His Majesty 's Theatre , London , in 1904 .
The school later moved to Gower St , was granted a royal patent , and eventually became the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art .
But it is certainly true that in the last sixty years the various schools and academies of acting have had a significant effect on the climate of .
Stanislavsky 's ideas on became central to modern drama training , and many of the most interesting and powerful concepts in actor training developed from his work .
Most people applying to drama school will be seeking to enrol on the full-time diploma course , which usually runs a three-year period .
Some schools offer a two-year course for students who have more experience , particularly those from overseas .
Two-year course students may be a little older , and have already studied drama at university level .
A limited number of schools post-graduate courses which are scheduled one year .
Drama Studio London also runs a one-year course for post-graduate students or in some cases students with other professional skills or theatrical experience .
Payment of fees and
Fees set by each drama school do differ slightly , though they can be considered basically similar .
In general , it 's wise to think of each term 's tuition fees as costing from & pound ; 1300 to & pound ; 1600 ( current in 1989/90 ) .
Expect a general rise in fees of some 7-9 % for the academic year starting September 1990 .
For an eight-term diploma the total cost will be around & pound ; 11-12000 .
These fees are quite distinct from the money you will need for , , buying books , etc. , which will probably account for a further & pound ; 3500 to & pound ; 5000 ( these figures are based on 1989/90 standards ) .
Three-year and two-year diploma students should bear these in mind so they have some idea of what is going to be involved when they make an application for a further education to their local authority .
Application for a grant should be made at the same time as the application for an audition in order that you can be sure of your position should you be fortunate enough to be offered a place .
Discretionary grants for further education have suffered in the climate of recent economic cuts and local government allowances can affect the number and level of grants awarded .
It is possible that your local authority may ask you to audition for them after you have been offered a place .
This seems an odd way of going things , but the panels do carry a professional adviser so that talent is not merely being judged by local civil servants .
Having worked on interview panels with the now defunct ILEA I can say that the object has not been to block the drama school selection so much as to see that the grant is well .
Scholarships are an entirely different matter .
Some schools do provide for students to be granted a scholarship towards the cost of tuition , but there are not many endowments of this kind .
offers two to three scholarships per year for UK students , Webber Douglas offers two , RSAMD a small number of scholarships and Guildford School of to an acting student , for fees only .
LAMDA have a small number of awards `` some of which can give financial assistance .
Two scholarships are available for American students at , which provide the total fee , or , according to parental income , part of it .
Drama schools in Britain
There are seventeen drama schools in Britain which constitute the `` Conference of Drama Schools `` and most of these have courses which have been accredited by the National Council for Drama Training .
This means they have been inspected by a team of professional experts and the standard of their work has been approved .
Drama training is under constant review through the accreditation system , so that standards are maintained and new developments assessed , and schools which may not be in the accredited list today may well be there soon .
In the 1984 edition a further one hundred and thirty-four addresses were , which includes ballet schools , tuition courses , and others .
There are still those who prefer to take their chances in the profession without any formal training .
This used to be a lot easier to do than it is now : for one thing , working in the profession means that you have to belong to the actors ' union , Equity .
Yet students who have completed expensive training the same difficulties as an untrained actor in for an Equity card .
This question is discussed later in the book , but it is still relevant to the drama student .
Becoming an actor has to be thought of in realistic terms right from the beginning and all possible problems do need to be faced .
The post-graduate course is not offered by all drama schools , and places are therefore .
The case of a physics teacher who wanted to become an actor is interesting in showing the kind of problems which accompany a late entry into drama school .
The local authority to which he applied refused to provide the necessary grant , and the person was sadly compelled to turn down a place on a one-year post-graduate course which had already been offered to him .
The grounds were that he had used his grant entitlement in to be a teacher .
This means that there is usually only one `` `` production at the end of the year for agent and production managements to see .
The one-year course is only to lay the foundations of good technical training - and it is widely that the course simply pushes the student into the profession with enough practical experience to find his or her feet .
There is an optional second year which students can apply for which `` joins up `` with the two-year diploma course .
Students do n't automatically proceed to this - it depends on the talent of the individual concerned , and of course it means that an extra year 's funds have to be found .
There is really no way of knowing how long it takes to develop an actor who has already gained a lot from work in university .
University can be very good and technically aware , or it can be immensely self-indulgent and over-academic , full of theory and sparse on craft .
That is why the post-graduate course exists - to shape intellect and enthusiasm and provide practical and professional skills .
All major drama schools audition the USA , and places to students who can show talent and raise the money to accept a place .
This is one field of higher education where in some cases the fees from the overseas student are no higher than they are for British nationals .
In all cases students taking a course ( which is usually either a two-year diploma course or a one-year course ) are to return to their country on completion of training .
Students can also apply from any part of the world , and in the UK , but need to remember that a high standard of fluency in the language will be expected .
There will always be problems when working with an English text using or other dialects , but students from overseas have to expect to take this in their stride ( and usually do ) .
It 's important that a student is prepared to understand and work with the prevalent theatrical traditions in UK schools .
And with so much theatre available in the United States , New Zealand , Australia and Canada , it is interesting to ask why British theatre training is thought to be so beneficial .
I can only put it down to the strong classical emphasis which prevails in the courses in the UK , although many of the university drama courses in the USA do stage Shakespeare and the European classical authors .
America has had many unsuccessful attempts to form a national repertory theatre , performing the classics of the language , and one wonders whether it will ever be possible to get this going effectively .
Instead they need to find out the rhythms of speech which make the music of the verse in dramatic form .
Many American students working British drama schools find the answer to this question by using what is called `` standard `` , and this approach is being used now in on both sides of the Atlantic .
By now you will have made a definite decision to become an actor - no matter what the problems or obstacles .
The next step is to prepare for the audition at a drama school and find the kind of textual material which will allow you to show the best of yourself .
On obtaining a prospectus and asking for an application , you will find that every drama school will require an audition fee , and this can vary between & pound ; 15 and & pound ; 25 .
If you can afford to , it 's generally best to spread your auditions around the drama schools so that you are seen more than once .
When auditioning for most schools you will be asked to present at least two contrasting speeches and possibly give some idea of your attitude to improvisation and , perhaps , to singing .
It 's usual to make a choice from the classical and modern repertoire .
Some schools will stipulate a number of Shakespearean speeches from which you may select , but in the the choice of work is left entirely to you .
Your choice of material
A lot will depend on your current theatre experience and whether you have done much , but finding the kind of character to work an audition is going to mean some careful thinking and .
Always think what the chosen piece is doing for you - after all , the audition is about you , the naked ape , as well as that inner spark of inspiration you may have .
Your bones , your eyes , your hair , your teeth are all going to be scrutinised by a panel of judges who are looking for your all-round potential , not just an impressive academic display .
is very much a physical business .
Remember that there may be some twelve to eighteen places at any one of the drama schools , and the number of auditions may up to fifteen hundred for the leading schools .
Do n't be daunted by that , but recognise that like everything else in the business , it is highly competitive .
No drama school panel is looking for the ultimate in audition technique but candidates should possess a noticeable degree of competence and self-awareness .
Not all auditions have just two speeches , classical and modern .
You may well be asked to sing something unaccompanied , or do a short improvisation and you may well be asked to perform one of the speeches in a different way .
The point of preparation is to be well tuned and at the same time flexible to new interpretations and ideas .
Everyone on the audition panel is prepared to be on your side and supportive .
They are not looking for you to fail - every audition panel wants you to be good .
That 's why there are pieces ; not everyone is going to be marvellous with the classics ( Rex Harrison once avowed that he was `` no good at Tudor `` ) .
But you are to be competent with such material even if you feel this is not what you would eventually choose to work with .
The classical text is for the panel to see your abilities , your imaginative range and your capacity as a thinking actor .
And while you are not to be perfect ( who is , ever ? ) you are to have something to offer .
Shakespeare is the most widely known and of the classical playwrights and it is for this reason that a piece from one of his plays is nearly always obligatory at a drama school .
The plays are full of characters that - that is , speak solo without other characters around them , thinking aloud about their aims , their problems , their ambitions , and hatreds .
These soliloquies occupy a unique area of dramatic speech ( although the aria is something modern dramatists are now using more frequently ) .
There are a host of audition pieces to be derived from the soliloquies and monologues , many of which are well tried favourites , and almost any selection will be reasonably well known .
But when you are looking for a suitable speech you ca n't really reject anything familiar solely because you think it might bore the panel .
The selection is right if it truly works for the competing student , and it is the quality and force of the imagination that will carry the performance of the piece .
The most important thing is your knowledge that the selection is within your range .
Her trial scene ( 3 , Scene 2 ) which begins
what I am to say must be but that Which contradicts my accusation & hellip ;
is a familiar but effective choice .
In Shakespeare there are many young men to choose from .
And of course there is Petruchio , lively in humour and making a confidante of his listeners .
All of them have speeches that are rich in passion , character and intensity , which can sustain the actor in flight .
And then there are the tougher types : Edmund from King Lear , a romantic macho figure with a wide eye for fame and fortune .
You might also think about that other bastard son , Philip , in King John , a merry , pranking , politically astute fellow , with a wry , salty style .
He has a famous eulogy on status :
A foot of better than I was
But many a foot of land the worse & hellip ;
1 , Scene 1
`` ( 4 , Scene 2 ) .
And remember there is no need to be afraid of .
He is , after all , an actor 's part and perfectly accessible - he prefers , too , to be acted rather than to be read .
Ophelia is often ignored for audition material simply because she does n't seem to have much in the way of a sustained speech until she goes mad .
Yet her earlier speech , she describes Hamlet 's condition and behaviour , has great tenderness and awareness :
He took me by the wrist , and held me hard ,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm ,
And , with his other hand thus his brow ,
He falls to such perusal of my face
As he would draw it & hellip ;
Act 2 , Scene 1
The speech is short but very telling and can be effective in a , even though the actual scene does involve other characters .
The question of selection is very personal ; after all , what makes you choose the character that you are going to do ?
Let us look at Romeo and Juliet .
Bernard Shaw once Romeo and Juliet as `` the impetuous march of music `` , and if ever there was a play of rich language , this is it .
The music of the words is there to be used - but not at the expense of the sense and emotional content .
Although every moment of the lovers ' experience is drenched in imagery , there is still a fine feeling of reality about the characters which gives them bone and muscle .
Yet it is not the reality of a naturalistic drama , such as we would find in , say , Ibsen or Chekhov .
We can not explain the motivations of Romeo in terms of today 's values , but we can bring a contemporary handling to the words that will make the imagery afresh each time it is spoken .
These are better than the and tomb scenes .
In any case , keep your chosen speech short and contained , for it is better to end when those auditioning would have you continue .
Brevity truly is the soul of wit .
John Barton 's Playing Shakespeare is a fine follow-up .
Barton does investigate the actor 's work in a more contemporary way and the book is based on the TV series of the same name .
Selections from the modern theatre may include characters that have been created the last sixty years , from Noel Coward to Steven .
Which is a very big range .
Interestingly , though , most of the audition selections are chosen from work of the last twenty years ; most young students will go for contemporary work .
Therefore the pieces that have been put together in the following pages as possible audition selections are from writers who have gained , or are now gaining , a major place in contemporary theatre .
Neither have I suggested anything from Noel Coward , Somerset Maugham or Terence Rattigan , even though their plays are continually being performed .
characters for yourself will , 1 , depend a good deal on your personal taste in theatre at the time you are auditioning .
And your choice of audition piece is often largely decided by the contrast it provides with the classical selection you have made .
And do n't let your search for material you to choose the obscure for obscurity 's sake , so you feel you will be sure to stun the panel with a piece that has no good professional background .
Similarly , from Agatha Christie or general run of the mill commercial theatre very rarely have enough substance on which you can work .
A piece to be presented should have something more than a surface quality in the characterisation .
Writers such as C. P. Taylor , David Halliwell , Peter Nicols , Caryl Churchill and Louise have a great deal to offer .
But there are many more , of course , and playwrights is useful only insofar as it presents a few guidelines , primarily to help you look the places .
There are also many opportunities for audition pieces in the American repertoire .
American theatre is well known and well regarded here , and to choose a piece from any of those just mentioned is thoroughly viable .
Sam Shepard and Edward Albee are also good choices , and there are interesting selections to be made from the play of the book Flew the Cuckoo 's Nest , by Dale .
technical skill , but is wide open to raw interpretations , and as such a lot to the student .
makes particular demands on the actor .
There are no character notes of any kind in the text , which is written as a complex that looks like prose at first glance .
He sets up long , colourful and emotional speeches that are in both funny , beautiful and violent , and his work can not be compared with anything that has preceded him .
Finding a style in these parts without having seen a production of the play can be a problem , but as with absurd drama , there is a lot of room for personal interpretation .
Few auditions seem to be chosen from the works of Samuel Beckett - Waiting for and are the only two which seem to offer possibilities .
On the other hand , Harold Pinter 's characters Mick and Aston from The Caretaker are familiar , and both of them are still young and exciting enough to make good choices .
Remember anything which excites and you is a possibility and the greater the contrast with your first classical choice , the you will enable the panel to see your range .
You will now perhaps be wondering whether or not you should be coached for your audition .
Your natural ability is the thing that should emerge , and if you have been well coached the coaching wo n't show .
If you have been badly coached it will show everywhere .
So it 's another of those difficult personal decisions .
Choose your coach with care ; be sure that they know what they are doing for the theatre and actor of today .
There are plenty of good coaches just as there are a multitude of nice misguided types who seek to portray themselves through other people over and over again .
You are the actor on show at your audition - no-one is interested in auditioning your coach .
Valuable coaching can often come from drama school tutors who can give a fair assessment of the possibilities you may have prior to auditioning .
A list of such tutors is contained in Contacts ( address is given on p 17 ) .
It can be well worth the additional expense of some private tuition for the audition and gaining one to one advice on your material .
Your own presentation is another thing you need to be aware of .
Clothes are important - you should wear something which enhances your own self esteem and creates the kind of impression .
When presenting a classical and a modern piece women may use a practice skirt for one selection which can be used jeans , or another skirt .
Men may wish to use a jacket for one piece and only a sweater for the other .
And props ; what do you do about them at your audition ?
Well , anything that can be carried and without a lot of fuss is permissable - pipes , cigarettes , mirrors , handbags , fans , , etc .
But the less elaborate you can be the better .
Try to think of the essentials , as any good coach will tell you .
Learning thoroughly the piece which you are going to do is important .
Auditions are nerve-wracking for everyone who does them ( and for that matter , for everyone who watches them ) but being sure of your text is the least you can do .
Should that unthinkable thing happen , and you forget your lines , do n't despair .
A sympathetic panel may well ask you to start again .
If you have done any class before attempting the drama school , most of the teachers will at some point in their sessions have talked about `` relaxation `` .
A lot has to do with how you breathe and how you react physically to moments of tension .
You will be tense at the audition because a lot is at stake , but if you trust to your own natural resources , the degree of panic can be reduced .
I would suggest that if you are sure of your pieces , do n't read them over and over again on the way to the audition - once will be quite enough .
Nerves afflict everyone in some way , and without them acting would be the poorer .
The dead calm actor is , on the whole , dead boring .
Stage nerves are unlike anything else in the whole world , and many good actors will confess to them right through their careers .
Stage fright is something else - but it is usually self-induced and can be overcome , finally , with much rehearsal practice .
When dealing with nerves , the most important single thing is to have a centre of concentration .
Concentration has nothing to do with gritting your teeth and braving it out ; it 's the secret of being more and more relaxed and aware of everything that is going on at the same time .
You will not only be sure of the text , but , more than this , of the character you are portraying .
With well characters the words fit and so that the actor can ride with ease , and the thoughts , no matter how disjointed , have a natural quality is at once `` actable `` .
No-one can hope to have a command of all these things at a first audition .
But they are guidelines to what acting is basically .
Here is a selection of speeches for both men and women that may be recommended for auditions at drama schools .
It ca n't be stressed enough that you should know the entire play from which you select your audition piece ; not only , but have thought carefully about the characters and their inter-relationship .
Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare .
is in high spirits , Romeo about his love as they prepare to go to the masked ball .
He speaks to both Romeo and others around him , about dreams and dreamers .
O then I see Queen Mab hath been with you .
She is the fairies ' midwife , and she comes
In shape no bigger than an agate stone
On the forefinger of an alderman
Drawn with a team of little atomi
Over men 's noses as they lie asleep .
Her chariot is an empty hazelnut
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub ,
Time out o ' the fain-es ' coachmakers ;
Her waggon-spokes of long spinners ' legs ,
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers ,
Her traces of the smallest spider web ,
Her collars of the moonshine 's watery beams ,
Her whip of cricket 's bone , the lash of film ,
Her waggoner a small ,
Not half so big a round little worm
'd from the lazy finger of a maid ;
And in this state she gallops night by night
Through lovers ' brains , and then they dream of love ;
O'er courtiers ' knees , on curtsies ;
O'er lawyers ' fingers who straight dream fees ;
O'er ladies ' lips , who straight on kisses ,
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are .
Sometime she gallops a courtier 's nose
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit ;
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig 's tail ,
Tickling a parson 's nose as a lies asleep ;
Then dreams he of another benefice .
Sometime she driveth a soldier 's neck
And then dreams he of foreign throats ,
Of breaches , ambuscados , Spanish blades ,
Of healths five ; and then
Drums in his ear , at which he starts and wakes ,
And being thus swears a prayer or two
And sleeps again .
This is very Mab
1 , Scene 4
This is a very well known piece , which needs vivacity and spontaneity in presentation ; Mercutio is enjoying himself , weaving his way through a fantastical set of images .
The problem in sustaining the speech , for is a and boisterous character , seemingly at odds with the mischief and delicacy of this speech .
Would such a man talk of fairies like this ?
Yet he obviously loves Romeo about the `` sickness `` of love .
King John by William Shakespeare
Philip the Bastard , half brother to Robert Faulconbridge , and son of King Richard the First , discovers himself in a position of authority when King John knights him and dubs him Sir Richard Plantagenet .
to his own reflections , he reveals himself to be a bright , keen opportunist .
Brother , adieu : good fortune come to thee !
For thou wast got way of honesty .
A foot of better than I was ,
But many a many foot of land the worse .
Well , now can I make any Joan a lady .
`` Good den , Sir Richard ! `` - `` God-a-mercy , ! `` -
And if his name be George , I 'll call him Peter ;
`` T is too respective and too sociable
For your conversion .
Now your traveller ,
He and his toothpick at my worship 's mess ,
And when my knightly stomach is suffic 'd ,
Why then I suck my teeth , and catechize
My picked man of countries : `` My sir , `` -
Thus , leaning on mine elbow , I begin ,
I shall beseech you , `` - that is Question now ;
And then comes like an book :
`` O sir , `` says Answer , `` at your best ;
At your employment ; at your service , sir : ``
`` No , sir , `` says Question , `` I , sweet sir , at yours ; ``
And so , Answer knows what would ,
in dialogue of compliment ,
And of the Alps and Apennines ,
It draws toward supper in conclusion so .
But this is worshipful society ,
And fits the spirit like myself ;
For he is but a bastard to the time
That doth not smack of observation ;
And so am I , whether I smoke or no .
And not alone in habit and device ,
Exterior form , outward accoutrement ,
But from the inward motion to deliver
, sweet , sweet poison for the age 's tooth :
Which , though I will not practise to deceive ,
Yet , to avoid , I mean to learn ;
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising .
But who comes in such in riding-robes ?
What woman-post is this !
That will take pains to blow a horn before her ?
O me ! `` t is my mother .
How now , good lady ?
What brings you here to court so hastily ?
1 , Scene 1
Exeunt all but the bastard
The character freely about himself , and what he hopes to gain from his new rank .
The jokes and the conversations end abruptly with `` But this is worshipful society `` and at that point he shows his real toughness and ambition .
The piece needs to be taken at a good pace and in high spirits .
The Merchant of Veniceby William Shakespeare
Lorenzo with his Jessica await the return of Portia , remaining out in the still night rather than returning to the house .
Sweet soullet 's , and there expect their coming .
And yet no matter : why should we go ?
My friend , signify ( I pray you )
Within the house , your mistress is at hand ,
And bring your music forth into the air .
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank !
Here will we sit , and let the sounds of music
our ears - soft stillness and the night
Become the touches of sweet harmony :
Sit Jessica , -look how the floor of heaven
Is inlaid with patens of bright gold ,
There 's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
But in his motion like an angel sings ,
Still quiring to the young-ey 'd cherubins ;
Such harmony is in immortal souls ,
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Doth grossly close it in , we can not hear it : & hellip ;
For do but note a wild and wanton herd
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts
mad bounds , bellowing and neighing ,
Which is the hot condition of their blood , -
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound ,
Or any air of music their ears ,
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand ,
Their eyes 'd to a modest gaze ,
By the sweet power of music : therefore the poet
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees , stones and floods ;
Since naught so stockish , and full of rage ,
But music for the time doth change his nature , -
The man that hath no music in himself ,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds ,
Is fit for treasons , stratagems , and spoils ;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night ,
And his affections as Erebus :
Let no such man be trusted : - mark the music .
Act 5 , Scene 1
This extract is made up of two consecutive speeches to Jessica ; either speech can be played for an audition , but if you have the time to do them both together the extract works well .
Remember that this is an intimate scene with Jessica , and you should identify her clearly throughout .
Allow the freshness of the thoughts to dominate , letting one idea lead into another .
Love 's LaboursLost by William Shakespeare
confesses to his love for Rosaline , with a good deal of witty , self mockery .
O ! and I forsooth in love !
I , that have been love 's whip ;
A very beadle to a humorous sigh ;
A critic , nay , a night-watch constable ,
A domineering pedant o'er the boy ,
Than whom no mortal so magnificent !
This wimpled , whining , purblind , wayward boy ,
This , , dan Cupid ;
of love , lord of folded arms ,
The anointed sovereign of sighs and ,
